1. AwesomeyangWhatever he did during the week, it didn't matter by the weekend. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored four of the five&nbsp;goals in Dortmund's win against Hamburg. Thomas Tuchel said before the game that what Dortmund wanted to achieve wasn't possible without Aubameyang. Afterwards, it was clear how difficult it will be for BVB to achieve much&nbsp;without him. Aubameyang now has 11 goals in nine league games and without those, Dortmund would be five points worse off (likely down in 11th). His goals hid&nbsp;a weak second-half performance from the visitors, but they also served as a reminder to both Bundesliga and Dortmund fans just how good a player he has become.2. Nagelsmann fairytale continuesAvoiding defeat to Bayern Munich requires a little bit of luck, but Hoffenheim probably deserved their point after delivering just enough of a performance. They restricted Robert Lewandowski to two shots and implemented their own plan despite the fact their hosts were Bayern Munich&nbsp;(often what causes Bayern opponents to wobble). Were it&nbsp;not for an own goal they might have come away with more than just the one point. Granted, they wobbled a bit in the second half, Mats Hummels hit the post and Thomas M ller somehow failed to score the winner late on, but Julian Nagelsmann&nbsp;leaves Munich as he arrived: undefeated.3. Is Gomez back?For a long time, Mario Gomez's goal drought matched Wolfsburg's poor form but it seems finding the back of the net on matchday 8 against Darmstadt has galvanized&nbsp;Wolfsburg's target man. His first goal was a glancing, powerful header for the ages but the second showed how he is trying to lead by example.&nbsp;The former Bayern man galloped&nbsp;forward through the rain and then held his composure to score into the bottom corner. It was an excellent performance on a rainy night in Freiburg. Perhaps that is what he needed to turn&nbsp;this spell in the Bundesliga around.4. A new hopeThe top four in the Bundesliga table are separated by four points. After the first ten games last season, Bayern were seven points clear of Dortmund, who in turn were four points clear of Schalke. This is a time to celebrate. Leipzig are playing exciting football, Hoffenheim have a daring young coach, Hertha are finding their identity and Cologne have a team led by the best French striker to be unrecognised by his country in years. And Frankfurt are good again! It's not just Bayern who have&nbsp;realised they can't stroll to the title, but Borussia Dortmund also know they must do more to finish second. Whisper it quitely, but there is a new hope in Germany's top flight and they are a real force to be reckoned with.5. Vote America!It was also quite the week for the Bundesliga's American representatives. Germany's top flight currently has nine Americans on show and most of them play&nbsp;key roles for their teams. This weekend, Hertha's John Anthony Brooks, BVB's Christian Pulisic and Eintracht Frankfurt's Timothy Chandler had standout performances. Brooks&nbsp;secured another clean sheet against Gladbach (and Fabian Johnson) demonstrating his defensive improvements. In a win against high-flying Cologne, Chandler assisted the only game of the goal, constantly delivered dangerous crosses and was solid. Against Hamburg though, Christian Pulisic once again stole the show -&nbsp;not even Bobby Wood would have made a difference. In his 68 minutes, Pulisic assisted one, constantly drove Dortmund forward and looked the most creative player on the park. The 18-year-old really is having a breakout season.