German compound nouns, Mark Twain wrote in his 1880 essay "The Awful German Language," are not words, "they are alphabetical processions."The 19th-century American humorist and novelist suggested "the inventor of them ought to have been killed. They are compound words with the hyphens left out."But if you click through the picture gallery above, you'll find that many compound words are clever concoctions that indirectly make use of the animal kingdom - like "donkey bridges" and "water roosters" - and have a history that goes back decades, if not centuries.For a collection of animal-inspired quirky German words, click through the gallery above. The gallery below presents a look at unusual and funny German expressions that will change the way you see&nbsp;nature.&nbsp;In many places, snow is often hardly recognizable as such the day after it falls. Either warm streets and pedestrians' boots turn it to grey slush, or sun rays and scantily clad adventurers cause it to melt. In German, "Schnee von gestern" describes an argument that is no longer relevant the next day. It's lost its icy punch. This man, in any case, seems to have reconciled with the cold.Talk with the older generation in any country, and you'll likely hear that things are "going down the stream." And we're not talking about a carefree cruise. Whether it's the behavior of youth today or the guality of food at the local supermarket, it's irreparably sinking into the depths of negativity. At the far end of the proverbial stream, not even a rubber boat can help.For urbanites, most of the birds we see are harmless, except for occasional waste dropping. Showing someone the bird, however, won't injure them, but may hurt their feelings. In English it means raising your middle finger in anger; in German it's pointing your index finger to your head to indicate someone's crazy. Both movements have one thing in common: They're often made while driving a car.If the nearest coffee shop or gas station is just a cat's leap away from here, you're in luck because it's quite close. While "Katzensprung" offers an elegant visual image, it can be a bit misleading for the lazy among us. Compared to many animals - and, most importantly, us humans - cats can leap quite far.A forest of signs ("Schilderwald") can be found among trees, but doesn't have to be. In this country known around the world for its penchant for order, the traffic authorities can sometimes get carried away with street signs. What do you do if there are 10 signs at once all telling you something different? Just keep driving - you're bound to find yet a different sign ahead.In an egg, it's the yolk that has the most nutrients, essentially making it the most valuable part (unless of course you're making a souffl ). That's why "das Gelbe vom Ei" - literally, the yellow from an egg - is also used to refer to something of the highest quality. The star soprano in the opera, for example, sings with such emotion and technical perfection that she's an egg yolk.This expression was both inspired by nature and is used to described it - in a way, at least. If you are "in der Pampa," you're in the middle of nowhere. While "Pampa" literally refers to the spacious grass plains in the southern portion of South America, the idiom can be used for any uninhabited expanse. It usually has a negative connotation, though the Pampa can often be truly gorgeous.Let's be honest: Pigs aren't exactly the most attractive or cuddly of animals. But in the home of sausage and schnitzel, they are the most frequently eaten creature in Germany. Perhaps it's seeing them every day on their plate that gives Germans a special connection to swine. Here, pigs are a symbol for luck. So if you "have pig," you can smile because things are going well. Oink! Author: Kate M ser