As the talk about the coming of the bond notes circulates on social media, people are gripped with fear and all their hopes have been shattered and some fear losing their hard-earned cash stashed in banks. By Leonard Koni,Our ReaderZimbabweans are finding it hard to put decent meals on their tables with most living on under $1 a day As the succession battles rage on in the ruling party with factions calling themselves G40 and Team Lacoste fighting to take over in the event that the President leaves office and companies closing at an alarming rate, and the youth leaving the country for greener pastures because of the harsh economic environment currently prevailing in the country, all hope is lost.Life is increasingly becoming tougher every day, as families are finding it harder to put decent meals on their tables with most living on under $1 a day.It is so disheartening that some people are falling sick and they cannot afford to buy expensive drugs prescribed by doctors. We are losing innocent lives because government hospitals and clinics are underfunded and do not have medication.With no sign of employment creation and the so-called ZimAsset bringing false hope and misery among the youths in Zimbabwe, university and college graduates are turning to vending, as the 2,2 million promised jobs are nowhere in sight.Our government has been found wanting by failing to create employment for thousands of university graduates.Excessive government spending and borrowing has had a devastating effect, as it has become the biggest single player in domestic debts with no production on the ground. Due to dwindling tax collection caused by the closure of many companies, the government has resorted to flooding major roads with traffic police so that they can collect as much revenue as they can from poor motorists.In fact, our government has become broke and clueless. Instead of crafting friendly economic policies, our leaders and jostling for political positions and preparing for 2018 polls.There is an old saying that goes: When elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers. Imagine after long years of suffering, hunger, abject poverty and searching for a job in vain, one is tempted to give up and accept the status quo as the norm. Some people have never tasted how it was during the mid 1980s. Many people have been dispirited, demoralised and dehumanised; and some youths have resorted to sniffing glue and taking Broncleer, and prostitution has become the order of the day. Poverty and hunger are the driving force and it is eating the moral fibre of our people. We have lost dignity.Zimbabweans across the country are now pinning their hopes on the two biggest political parties, the MDC-T and ZimPF, to forge a strong grand coalition to elbow out the ruling party and solve the political and economic problems facing our country. Zimbabwe is looking for a leader, who is not obsessed with power.As the two parties negotiate and discuss among themselves, they should avoid bad-mouthing and hate speech. They must put the national interests first, before political ambitions.