There are Reichsb rger members in the German police force, despite the fact they actually reject the state they work for. The revelation comes after a member of the right-wing movement shot and killed a policeman. (31.10.2016) They are radical and violent. In recent years more and more people identifying themselves as Reichsb rger have drawn the attention of authorities. Who are they, and what kind of danger do they pose? (20.10.2016) Domestic intelligence in Germany has many extremist groups under surveillance. The right-wing "Reichsb rger" is only one of them. DW takes a look at other groups which have come to the attention of authorities. (22.10.2016) The number of anti-government activists is growing in the US. They do not pay taxes, print their own documents - and occasionally shoot and kill police officers. DW takes an in-depth look at these "sovereign citizens." (20.10.2016) There are three police officers in the German state of Saxony with "possible connections to the Reichsb rger" movement, State Premier Stanislaw Tillich told the "Funke Mediengruppe" on Sunday.The Reichsb rger movement rejects the authority of the German Federal Republic, and therefore its laws, borders and institutions. Instead, they believe in the existence of German Reich and its 1937 borders.The anti-government movement of several hundreds of people has gained greater attention since October, when a member wounded three police officers and killed another in a shootout in Bavaria.The incident led authorities to renew their focus on possible members of the loosely organized group in the state bureaucracy and police force. Already, several police officers in a number of states are under investigation and face disciplinary action.Police officers and state officials in Germany must take an oath to protect the constitution. Reichsb rger ideology and practices are against the constitution.Tillich said that if the suspicion about the three police officers' ties to the Reichsb rger movement were verified then there would be "serious consequences."&nbsp;cw/jlw&nbsp;(AFP, dpa)