THE Paul Siwela-led secessionist Matabeleland Liberation Organisation (MLO) says former Vice President Joice Mujuru cannot escape culpability for the Gukurahundi atrocities, as she was part of President Robert Mugabe s government during that time. BY NQOBANI NDLOVUThe ZimPF leader last week denied responsibility for the Gukurahundi atrocities in an interview with Al-Jazeera TV, saying even though she was in government at the time, she was unaware there was a secret army committing mass killings in Matabeleland and Midlands.But MLO secretary for information Israel Dube accused Mujuru of shedding crocodile tears in order to solicit for votes in the region .Dube said it was mind-boggling that Mujuru professes ignorance yet Zanu PF supporters at the time knew and supported the mass-killings. Certainly, people of Matabeleland and the world cannot be fooled. If Zanu PF supporters knew about National Army 5 Brigade in the 1980s, knew about its evil work in Matabeleland to the extent of carrying banners and placards with the words, Forward with 5 Brigade, we wish you well , how can a Zanu PF top official and wife of a high ranking commander of the national army at the time claim that she did not know about it? She must have been blind or deaf or both. Besides, she is bound by collective responsibility and remains a criminal by association, he said in a statement ZimPF recently said groupings accusing Mujuru of having a hand in the 1980s Gukurahundi are misdirecting their anger, adding they should, instead, confront President Robert Mugabe and others implicated in the atrocities.Mujuru has revealed plans to visit mass graves of Gukurahundi victims, in particular the Bhalagwe Detention Centre in Kezi, with some Matabeleland based groupings, such as MLO, accusing her of toying with the issue for political gains. Wherever she went in Matabeleland, she saw abandoned homes that were razed down by fire, some of them with people inside. She met poor genocide orphans without birth certificates, poor widows and widowers, who lost their homes and loved ones, Dube said. Survivors of Matabeleland genocide bear physical and emotional scars of Gukurahundi. The last thing they need to see is a perpetrator crying crocodile tears (sic) in order to solicit votes from them. It is estimated that more than 20 000 civilians were killed when Mugabe sent the North Korea-trained militia to Matabeleland and Midlands to crack against dissent to his rule.