The United States (US) election has come and gone. There is no need to repeat that the outcome was as surprising as the sun rising from the West. Donald Trump was the victor on the day, despite odds being stacked against him. He will become the 45th President of the US. Miracles still happen. Develop me: Tapiwa GomoHowever, watching as the international news channels announced the election results, state by state, there was an irresistible feeling reminiscent of the March 11, 2002 presidential election in Zimbabwe. Most people had spent the entire night following the election results. For the better part of the evening and just a few hours into the morning, it looked like the MDC was going to win it. Some could smell change coming.Mid-way through the early hours of the morning, there was a long blackout until they resumed results announcements towards daybreak. From that time onwards it was Zanu PF winning with huge margins. This is when the country knew that there were enthusiastic voters in Uzumba-Maramba-Pfungwe, as the numbers surprised even those, who come from the area. Zanu PF was the eventual winner, albeit by a small margin. It was a sad day for those of us who had anticipated change and those who had worked for it. Most had hoped that with Zanu PF defeated during the Constitutional Commission referendum, the economy plummeting and the international community dis-engaging from Zimbabwe, the 2002 election would have been the final nail in their coffin. But alas, the ruling party had better ideas on how to survive than those who struggled to survive under its leadership. I was one of those who were heartbroken and all the sense of hope was somewhat dashed. And indeed since that day, everything that had gone wrong in Zimbabwe continues to get worse. I still remember vividly that morning, as I walked to the bus terminus to catch a bus to work. For once, kombis and buses that are often the centres of public political discussions, were as quiet as mortuaries. Most people dreaded the idea of having to wait for another six years under Zanu PF until the 2008 elections. It was a bitter pill to swallow and the wait was long and futile. On November 9, some Americans went through this same feeling and it is not a good feeling at all. We might have judged Trump too early, maybe their wait will be far better than ours given that the US democratic system has structures to facilitate the demand for accountability. Having said that, there are few lessons to draw from Trump s victory. Some of them call into question the ability of democracy to deliver appropriate leaders to lead. The first lesson, of course is to avoid complacency based on loud public opinion and polls. It is the silent voters who carried the day for Trump. Very rarely did the world hear Trump supporters making a lot of noise on social media or on traditional media. With their voices almost absent from the political scene, it looked as if Hillary Clinton was set for a landslide victory. The outcome was the opposite.The second lesson linked to the above is that the outcomes of elections are rarely influenced by ideas presented on the political campaign market by candidates, but by how the sitting government has fared in its past and current term. Voters tend to judge and act upon what they have experienced rather than what has been promised. Perhaps this is why Trump s victory was a big surprise, as it seemed he carried more negative than positive attributes for the job. But the main determinant was that there are some among the voters, who were disenchanted by some of Obama policies and they saw Clinton s victory as an extension of those policies. In fact, given that she was once part of the Obama administration confirmed to them the notion that Clinton would pursue the same Obama policies. And as a result, Trump s victory might not have been because he was the candidate with the best ideas, but some voters used Trump to express their dislike for some of Obama s policies. In this case, the American democracy might not have produced the best for its next fours, but has been used to get rid of the unwanted. Another lesson to draw from Trump s victory is the resurgence of a white supremacism to reclaim space that has been shrinking before them over the decades. In my October 24 instalment, I shared in this column some of the frustrations certain sections of the white supremacists have experienced under the philosophies of democracy and egalitarianism. While these concepts represent human ideological evolution, they are the tools that disempowered them while empowering the historically marginalised. Equality might have benefitted the marginalised, it certainly has stripped power off those who used to wield it. They were the biggest losers and Trump represents their future even though they do not really like him. In this case supremacism represents everything, including superiority and unhindered access to opportunities for one group over the rest. Looking at the demographics of Trump s voters suggest that his main base were white males, mainly the traditional ones, who might have thought it was too much to swallow to accept an African-American President and then watch power move to a female candidate. But most importantly, they want to regain their control of the national and global economy by repositioning themselves in a position of power to influence global decisions and Trump offers that future. Tapiwa Gomo is a development consultant based in Pretoria, South Africa