The Kurdish peshmerga forces have stopped on the outskirts of Mosul under an agreement with Baghdad. DW speaks with Tomas Olivier of the security consultancy Lowlands Solutions to find out why. A US-backed Kurdish-Arab alliance has announced the start of an offensive to retake the so-called "Islamic State's" (IS) Syrian stronghold of Raqqa. But Turkey is likely to object to Kurdish involvement in the operation. The US will provide aerial support for the campaign to retake Raqqa, the "Islamic State's" de facto capital in Syria, an American official told reporters in Amman on Sunday.Brett McGurk, President Barack Obama's envoy for the US-led coalition against the militant group, said that the "initial phase" to liberate the city had begun after the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) announced the campaign earlier Sunday."The Raqqa campaign will proceed in phases, deliberate phases, there is an isolation phase which began today and subsequent phases to ensure we kick out Daesh out of Raqqa," McGurk said, referring to the group by its Arabic acronym.He added that Washington is in "close, close contact" with its ally Turkey, which views the Syrian Kurdish fighters as a terrorist organization.The US views the SDF, also comprising&nbsp;Syrian Arab groups, as the most effective force&nbsp;to countering the militant group."When it comes to Raqqa, we want a force that ultimately liberates Raqqa that is primarily from the local area, Arabs from the area, and so we have trained many of these fighters, and that force will continue to grow as we get to the subsequent phases of the campaign," McGurk added.Turkey's chief of general staff Hulusi Akar said he met with his American counterpart Joseph Dunford following the SDF's announcement."Joint combat methods against Daesh in Syria and Iraq, namely al-Bab and Raqqa, were discussed for the coming days," Akar said in a statement.But the alliance of Kurdish and Arab fighters said it rejected Turkish involvement in the operation.A breakaway from terrorist organization al Qaeda, "Islamic State" is a Sunni militant group that is believed to have formed in response to disillusionment and frustration due to the failed rule of governments in Syria and Iraq. Its flag reads "Muhammad is the prophet of God" and "There is no god apart from Allah" - lines that are valid for all Muslims, not just "IS."The "Islamic State" aims to create a "caliphate" - a state where the traditional values of Islam and Sharia law must be adhered to. Due to the instability of regions in Syria and Iraq, the "Islamic State" has been able to capture land in the two countries.A key difference is the brutality "Islamic State" has used to strike fear into its enemies and innocents by cruel beheadings and ruthless violence. In contrast to this, it is said to govern the regions it takes over. As Middle East expert Shadi Hamid told PBS: "They provide social services. They run local government. They provide some modicum of law and order."Though "IS" is active in Syria and Iraq, the Nigerian terrorist organization Boko Haram recently declared its support. It's like a competition in cruelty: while Boko Haram is responsible for 13,000 deaths, "IS" has injured or killed at least 24,000 people. Terrorist group al Qaeda has distanced itself from "IS" with its offshoot Nusra Front even fighting against "IS".Something else that distinguishes the "IS" is its followers. More than 20,000 foreign fighters have joined the group, with more than 4,000 come from Western Europe and North America, according to an ICSR report. Here are the countries where most people have gone to fight. But, there are more fighters per capita heading to fight from some smaller countries like Sweden and Belgium.Since August 2014, a US-led coalition has carried out airstrikes on "Islamic State" targets in Syria (1,422 strikes) and Iraq (2,242 strikes), according to a BBC report. Some governments have also been active within their own countries: Germany is set to prosecute at least 30 suspected militants returning from Syria, while Saudi Arabia, for example, arrested 93 suspected militants in April 2015. Author: Louise Osborne UK joins 'Raqqa operation'Meanwhile, British Defense Minister Michael Fallon said the Royal Air Force "will support the Raqqa operation as it develops," adding that it would provide "sophisticated" aerial surveillance for the campaign.The operation to liberate Raqqa coincides with an Iraqi military campaign to recapture Mosul from the militant group, which seized the country's third-largest city in 2014.More than 250,000 people have been killed and half the population displaced since 2011, when Syrian government forces launched a brutal crackdown on peaceful protesters calling for President Bashar al-Assad to step down.The conflict has evolved into a multifaceted battle that has led to the "Islamic State" acquiring large swathes of territory during its violent offensive in 2014. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1HN10ls/rc (AP, Reuters)