The Kurdish peshmerga forces have stopped on the outskirts of Mosul under an agreement with Baghdad. DW speaks with Tomas Olivier of the security consultancy Lowlands Solutions to find out why. In a rare speech, the militant group's chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi has called for fighters to stand their ground in Mosul. DW spoke to Hassan Hassan, co-author of "ISIS: The Army of Terror," to examine the implications. (03.11.2016) As the anti-IS coaltion moves in on Mosul in northeren Iraq citizens in the besieged city are being abused as human shields by "Islamic State" militants. Resistance is dealt with harshly; not even children are safe. (04.11.2016) The Iraqi campaign to uproot the so called "Islamic State" (IS) from its stronghold in Mosul slowed down on Sunday as liberation forces met fierce resistance from the militant group's fighters while entering more densely-populated areas of the city."This is one of the hardest battles that we've faced till now," said Lieutenant Colonel Muhammad al-Timimi.Over the weekend, Iraqi forces moved into more densely populated areas of the city without air support from the US-led coalition due to the high-risk of civilian casualties."There are a lot of civilians, and we are trying to protect them," al-Timimi noted.In a rare audio message circulated on Thursday, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of the militant group, ordered his followers to stand their ground and fight.The tone of his message marked a stark difference to previous speeches, signaling the group's reluctance to flee the city like they have in similar situations.Since Iraqi forces launched their campaign to liberate the country's third most populous city, the militant fighters have launched a wave of suicide car bombs, mortar attacks, roadside bombs, sniper fire and even reported mustard gas attacks.A breakaway from terrorist organization al Qaeda, "Islamic State" is a Sunni militant group that is believed to have formed in response to disillusionment and frustration due to the failed rule of governments in Syria and Iraq. Its flag reads "Muhammad is the prophet of God" and "There is no god apart from Allah" - lines that are valid for all Muslims, not just "IS."The "Islamic State" aims to create a "caliphate" - a state where the traditional values of Islam and Sharia law must be adhered to. Due to the instability of regions in Syria and Iraq, the "Islamic State" has been able to capture land in the two countries.A key difference is the brutality "Islamic State" has used to strike fear into its enemies and innocents by cruel beheadings and ruthless violence. In contrast to this, it is said to govern the regions it takes over. As Middle East expert Shadi Hamid told PBS: "They provide social services. They run local government. They provide some modicum of law and order."Though "IS" is active in Syria and Iraq, the Nigerian terrorist organization Boko Haram recently declared its support. It's like a competition in cruelty: while Boko Haram is responsible for 13,000 deaths, "IS" has injured or killed at least 24,000 people. Terrorist group al Qaeda has distanced itself from "IS" with its offshoot Nusra Front even fighting against "IS".Something else that distinguishes the "IS" is its followers. More than 20,000 foreign fighters have joined the group, with more than 4,000 come from Western Europe and North America, according to an ICSR report. Here are the countries where most people have gone to fight. But, there are more fighters per capita heading to fight from some smaller countries like Sweden and Belgium.Since August 2014, a US-led coalition has carried out airstrikes on "Islamic State" targets in Syria (1,422 strikes) and Iraq (2,242 strikes), according to a BBC report. Some governments have also been active within their own countries: Germany is set to prosecute at least 30 suspected militants returning from Syria, while Saudi Arabia, for example, arrested 93 suspected militants in April 2015. Author: Louise Osborne 'A long fight'The militant group has setup booby traps in neighborhoods, effectively slowing the Iraqi forces' advancement, said Masrour Barzani, who heads the Kurdistan Regional Government's Security Council."There are many different IEDs (improvised explosive devices) that they put in different places, come up with different tactics. Many that are used like networks," Barzani said."So in one house, they are putting one IED and trying to hide it. And once it explodes, then the entire neighborhood explodes," he added.However, despite the growing challenges of fighting the group as Iraqi forces inch their way towards the city center, Barzani pointed to other obstacles."The fight against ISIS is going to be a long fight Not only militarily but also economically, ideologically," he added.In 2014, the "Islamic State" took over large swathes of land in Iraq and Syria, culminating in the group's capture of Mosul after Iraqi forces fled the city. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2SF1Ils/rc&nbsp;(Reuters, AP)