KILLER T s highly-anticipated new album, Bvunza Tinzwe, made a false start yesterday, as it was launched in a near-empty Mbare Netball Complex due to what a handful of die-hard fans described as poor marketing . BY TAURAI MANGUDHLA The Mbare-bred chanter could barely fill a quarter of the venue in his own backyard, as some revellers opted to stay indoors due to the grim weather threatening a heavy downpour. Killer T received a lukewarm welcome from fans after announcing his arrival on stage with an unfamiliar tune.He, however, quickly redeemed himself by performing the popular track, Usanete Kutenda, produced by PTK on the Back in Town riddim before sampling his new album. The title track proved to be popular.Revellers, who spoke to NewsDay, cited poor preparations and pricing as well as inclement weather for the low turnout. This gig is expensive because $4 is just too much in the ghetto, especially when it s raining like this, a youthful fan, only identified as Pablo, said. He should have ensured Soul Jah Love was part of the gig because he is a crowd puller, another fan said.Vendors in and around the venue suffered huge losses due to the low turnout, with one of them saying the event had been poorly marketed. This event was poorly marketed because posters were only distributed three days ago. They think WhatsApp will market a show. Now we paid for access to sell our items during the show but it s a flop, an elderly vendor said.Despite the low turnout, T Makwikwi put up a splendid performance, as one of the first acts just before midnight. Hwindi President also wowed fans with his classy performance. Clad in a matching red outfit, cap and sneakers, the Chitungwiza-based chanter got fans singing along to his hits including Tsvagai Mabasa, Ndauya Nekarhumba and Tambirai Monaki.Seh Calaz redeemed himself after apologising for hurling insults at his fans last week. He went down on his knees before his fans after taking to the stage.He was canned off stage twice last week at the Judgment Yard anniversary at Harare Gardens, ending the show prematurely.Upcoming artistes, Blot and Silent Killer also put up splendid performances, churning out their hits backed by Chillspot Records.Freeman became the first Zimdancehall artiste to perform with a live band at Mbare Netball Complex. He was called back on stage after a thrilling performance, ending act with Siya, off his latest album, Mangoma Ihobho.