The accepted historical wisdom on Herschel Grynszpan is that he was either executed or died of disease while imprisoned in Germany some time between 1942 and 1945. But a photo found in the archive of the Jewish Museum in Vienna, Austria, seems to document that he actually survived World War II.The image shows a man bearing a resemblance to the few existing photos of Grynszpan amongst a group of Jewish displaced persons&nbsp;protesting against the British decision to seal off Palestine to Jewish immigration in 1946.The director of the Jewish Museum's archive, Christa Prokisch, recently discovered the photo and contacted German journalist, Achim Fuhrer, the author of several books about Nazi history, including a biography of Grynszpan. He says that "to a very high degree of probability" the photo is indeed of Grynszpan, the man who shot and fatally injured&nbsp;German diplomat Ernst von Rath in November 1938.'True surprise'"The photo looks like a snapshot, an arbitrary image made by a reporter or someone there at the time," Fuhrer wrote in the news magazine&nbsp;"Focus.""It doesn't look as though the photographer recognized Grynszpan, whose image was printed on the covers of magazines worldwide after his deed in 1938. In any case, the image is a true surprise since Grynszpan's fate is uncertain. The question as to whether he survived the war and the Holocaust has always been considered unresolved. Until now," he added.There is no positive proof that the man in the photo is Grynszpan, but others also see a close resemblance between the&nbsp;image and ones taken soon&nbsp;after the shooting in 1938."Indeed, permanent features like the position of the eyes and&nbsp;the set of his eyebrows, his nose, chin and ears all support the idea," concluded the newspaper "Die Welt."If genuine, the photo would force historians to rewrite their accounts of the man who unwittingly helped the Nazis unleash the most gruesome pogrom in the early history of the Holocaust.This photo, perhaps of Grynszpan, was found in a Vienna archiveAn excuse for mass violenceOn 7 November, 1938, the 17-year-old Grynszpan - a Polish Jew living illegally in Paris - shot the junior embassy official Rath twice in the abdomen. Grynszpan, who was born in the German city of Hanover, subsequently said that he was motivated by the deportations of his parents and 12,000 other Jews from Germany to Poland the preceeding August.Hitler sent two doctors, including his personal physician, to Paris, but Rath died two days later. Fuhrer claims that the doctors likely allowed Rath to die for propaganda purposes: a&nbsp;contentious suggestion.&nbsp;But there is no doubt that high-ranking Nazis immediately began trying to use the attack to further their own aims in Germany."On the morning following the fateful shooting, the Nazi press, under [Joseph] Goebbels' orchestration, [was] awash with vicious attacks on the Jews, guaranteed to incite violence," historian Ian Kershaw wrote. "Sure enough, that evening, 8 November, pogroms - involving the burning of synagogues, destruction of Jewish property, plundering of goods and maltreatment&nbsp;of individual Jews - were instigated in a number of parts of the country."Hitler promoted Rath to the rank of Legal Consul, First Class, just hours before he succumbed to his injuries at 5:30 p.m.&nbsp;on November 9. Goebbels hastily announced the news of Rath's death to the general public and issued direct orders to coordinate local anti-Semitic violence into a two-day pogrom that is often known in English as the "Night of Broken Glass."Some 91 people were killed in the violence, more than 1000 synagogues were burned, and more than&nbsp;7,000 Jewish-owned businesses were damaged or destroyed. The "Night of Broken Glass" is generally considered a major escalation in the state-organized persecution of Jews in Germany and a prelude to the Holocaust.Disappearing from viewThe Nazis used the assassination to incite mass anti-Semitic violenceBut Grynszpan himself has remained a mysterious figure surrounded by rumor and controversy. He&nbsp;was immediately arrested in Paris, but his case never came to trial, in part because of rising anti-German sentiment in France after the start of the Second World War on 1 September, 1939. On 18 July, 1940, after France had been beaten and was occupied by German forces, he was handed over to Nazi Germany.Goebbels repeatedly used the young man's shooting of Rath as evidence of a global Jewish conspiracy, but worried that Grynszpan would repeat claims, probably in hopes of saving his skin, that he had a homosexual affair with Rath if he were subject to what would have been a highly public trial. So the Nazis seem&nbsp;to have planned to wait until after the Second World War to put Grynszpan on a show trial and execute him.In any case, historian Ron Roizen asserts that Grynszpan was accorded special treatment as a politically prominent prisoner. He was confined first in Sachsenhausen concentration camp, then in a prison in the city of Magdeburg. What happened next is unclear - the historical record loses track of him in September 1942.The idea that Grynszpan and Rath were lovers was repeatedly put forward in Germany after the war, although it has been disproven fairly conclusively. But it wasn't the only myth surrounding the shooter.An unusual lack of documentsThe Nazis tried to depict Ernst von Rath as a martyrGrynszpan's parents had their son declared legally dead by the West German government in 1960, saying that they had heard nothing from him since the end of the war. Nonetheless, rumors swirled that he had survived and was living in Paris or elsewhere.The issue was never resolved, but a French doctor named Alain Cuenot, who extensively investigated the Grynszpan case, concluded in 1982 that he mostly likely died in late 1942 or early 1943."If Grynszpan had survived the years 1943, 1944 and 1945, it would seem quite unusual that documents would not have been added to those already gathered,"&nbsp;wrote Cuenot.Unanswered questionsOn the question of why, if Grynszpan did&nbsp;survive, there has been no confirmed&nbsp;sign of him after 1942, Fuhrer speculates that he might not have wanted to face potential criminal charges for the murder of Rath, or that he could have been afraid of anger from Jews who blamed him for the "Night of Broken Glass."Though convinced that the man in the photo is Grynszpan, Fuhrer admits that it doesn't tell us what may have become of him."The photo opens up more questions than it answers," the journalist wrote.So the debate about the man who inadvertently played a major role in the "Night of Broken Glass" is likely to continue.A new exhibition at the Vogelsang College, a former Nazi School in western Germany, opens on September 11 as part of a 45-million-euro ($50-million) project to secure the crumbling buildings. The exhibition includes this model of a bas-relief depicting idealized athletes at Vogelsang. The damaged original still stands at the sports ground of the site.The original bas-relief "Athletes" can be found in the sports ground of Vogelsang College. Most of the 2,000 exclusively male students schooled there and at another Nazi college in Kr ssinsee in what is now Poland came from lower-middle-class backgrounds and had suffered unemployment in the recession that preceded Hitler's rise. The curriculum consisted largely of physical exercise and drills.Vogelsang straddles a slope overlooking a spectacular vista of lakes and wooded hills in the Eifel region of western Germany. It was off-limits for 60 years because it was used as a military base and training camp for NATO troops.This Teutonic knight can be seen at an entrance tower to Vogelsang College. Formed at the end of the 12th century, the Teutonic knights were an order formed to protect Christian pilgrims en route to the Holy Land. Many of the Nazi symbols draw on medieval imagery.Pictured from the new exhibition is a photo of the "cult chamber" which featured a statue of the "new German man" flanked on the walls by the names of "martyrs" killed in the failed Beer Hall Putsch in Munich in 1923. The exhibition also contains striking photographs of ordinary-looking men smiling in their uniforms, as well as interactive displays with testimony by Holocaust victims.Stefan Wunsch is the scientific director of the exhibition. He is pictured with an exhibit containing an interview with Lithuanian Holocaust survivor Mascha Rolnikaite, talking about the so-called "Butcher of Vilnius" Franz Murer, a former college student at a different Nazi college in Kr ssinsee who was responsible for killing thousands of Jews in Lithuania."Visitors are confronted with the question, 'What has this got to do with me?' If you look at political developments today, it's very relevant," says Gabriele Harzheim, a researcher at Vogelsang. Here, she is pictured standing in the former cult chamber inside the main tower of Vogelsang with photos of it in its original state.Vogelsang was opened to the public in 2006 after the Belgian army vacated it, confronting authorities with a dilemma because the place is festooned with Nazi symbols and statues. Researcher Gabriele Harzheim is pictured holding a historic photo of the site.The communal halls at Vogelsang were feudal and elaborately decorated, while the squat, barrack-like dormitories were spartan to emphasize the community over the individual.Organizers expect the new exhibition and surrounding facility to draw 300,000 visitors per year. However, neo-Nazis also continue to visit the place. This five-meter (16.4-foot) torch bearer at Vogelsang College is a popular location for them to unfurl propaganda banners and have photos taken of themselves.Museum directors and tourism officials are well aware of the risk of pandering to "dark tourism" - neo-Nazis fascinated with the macabre grandeur of the Nazi regime. Curators have tried to break the spell with sober exhibitions and architectural changes that counter the soaring bombasticism of Hitler's architects. Author: David Crossland &nbsp;