Highlanders . . . . . . . . . . . (2) 2 How Mine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 HIGHLANDERS bounced back from six matches without a win to complete a double over How Mine in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELEErick Mudzingwa sent How Mine goalkeeper Donovan Bernard the wrong way from a spot-kick in the 33rd minute after midfielder Allen Gahadzikwa was brought down inside the penalty box by defender Kudzai Chideu, who was also cautioned by referee Nduna Nkosana over the incident.Gahadzikwa then scored the insurance goal three minutes into the first half optional time with a diving header after he was set up by defender Tendai Ndlovu.The gold-miners, who prior to this match had gone eight matches without defeat, finished the match with 10 men with second half substitute Timothy January barely lasting last eight minutes on the pitch as he was given his marching orders by Nduna in the 63rd minute.January was involved in an off-the-ball incident with Mudzingwa and the two were cautioned before the former remonstrated and Nduna flashed the red card.With the victory, Highlanders returned to third position three on the log-table with 35 points.The win brought relief for coach Erol Akbay and his technical staff after a difficult period in the lat six weeks. What was most important today was that we got the three points. Our defenders did a very good job. I am feeling very good after having gone for six matches without a win, but I was not happy with my strikers. They lacked the power and the technique, Akbay said.Highlanders goalkeeper Prosper Matutu had to be replaced after a collision with How Mine s Milton Ncube after 29 minutes.A disappointed How Mine coach Kelvin Kaindu said his boys gave away soft goals and although they pressed Highlanders in the second half they were unfortunate not to get a goal. We gave away soft goals, a penalty which we could have avoided and in the second goal everybody thought that ball had gone out, Kaindu said. Our approach was a bit casual in the first half. We looked better when we were a man down but we were already trailing by two goals. It is unfortunate that January had to be sent off. How Mine remain on position nine with 28 points after the defeat to Highlanders.Teams Highlanders: P Matutu (A Sibanda 29 ), T Ngulube, H Moyo, T Ndlovu, P Muduhwa, E Mudzingwa, N Ndlovu, R Kutsanzira (B Banda 87 ), P Dube, S Munawa, A Gahadzikwa (K Nadolo 69 )How Mine: D Bernard, P Tonha, Q Amini, K Chideu (T Ranthokoane 50 ), S Nyambabvu, M Sakala, T Banda (A Muganyi 70 ), M Ncube, T Makanda, H Masuku (T January 56 red card 63 ), P Manhanga