Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich return to Bundesliga action after dominating their opening Champions League group stage matches. Bayern were in complete control from start to finish at the Allianz Arena against FC Rostov in their 5-0 win, while in a hostile Warsaw atmosphere, Dortmund put last weekend's defeat to RB Leipzig behind them and were imperious in beating Legia Warsaw by 6-0. "It shows that we were hungry. You could see we were enjoying ourselves out there, said Dortmund coach Thomas Tuchel following the win in Poland. "We never let up. I'm very happy about that." However it won't be as easy in the Bundesliga. Darmstadt caused problems for Dortmund last season, earning a 2-2 draw at the Signal Iduna Park. Darmstadt's new head coach, Norbert Meier, who picked up his first league win in the Hesse Derby last weekend, is hoping for a similar performance. "We improved in the way we played against Frankfurt, but Dortmund is a different caliber," Meier told the prematch press conference. "We must maintain our belief against Dortmund and be determined, dare to try things and be quick and accurate on the technical side of things. Darmstadt captain Aytac Sulu is expected to get his first start of the season - he returned to training this week after recovering from a calf injury. Midfielder Jerome Gondorf is doubtful after suffering a knee injury against Frankfurt. Kimmich now vital Carlo Ancelotti has started life at Bayern Munich without breaking a sweat. His side are yet to give up any points or even concede a goal in a competitive match. Joshua Kimmich has emerged as the star of the season so far, adding two more goals against Rostov on Tuesday. "People always said to me that as soon as I get the first one, the rest will follow," said Kimmich, who has scored three goals in all club competitions. Ancelotti praised the German international as a player who "can fill ever position." Ingolstadt have taken only a point from their opening two matches of this season and know that everything needs to fall perfectly into place for them to collect at least a second point of the season this weekend. "We know that we need a perfect day to take something from them," coach Markus Kauczinski said. "We're striving for this perfect day." Bayern will be without Philipp Lahm, David Alaba and Thomas M ller due to flu, Ancelotti confirmed at a press conference on Friday. However, Jerome Boateng and Arjen Robben will both be on the bench, as well as Mats Hummels, who has recovered from bruising to his head suffered in the match against Rostov. Bundesliga Matchday 3: Cologne vs. Freiburg (Friday, 20:30 CEST) Bayern Munich vs. Ingolstadt (Saturday, 15:30 CEST) Borussia Dortmund vs. Darmstadt Hamburg vs. RB Leipzig Hoffenheim vs. Wolfsburg Frankfurt vs. Bayer Leverkusen Borussia M nchengladbach vs. Werder Bremen (Saturday, 18:30 CEST) Augsburg vs. Mainz (Sunday, 15:30 CEST) Hertha Berlin vs. Schalke (Sunday, 17:30 CEST)