HARARE football giants Caps United weighed down by a serious cash squeeze are targeting a league and cup double, with the team s assistant coach Fungai Kwashi saying the Chibuku Super Cup presents them with an opportunity to boost their dry coffers. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAThe Lloyd Chitembwe-coached side were paired with Tsholotsho in the $75 000 Chibuku Super Cup first round draw conducted in Harare on Monday.And with Caps United one of several teams sponsored by individuals and struggling to sustain operations due to cash flow problems, the Chibuku Super Cup provides a window of opportunity to ease their financial challenges. The Green Machine, owned by Harare businessman Farai Jere, are struggling to secure corporate sponsorship and have been rocked by threats of boycott by players over non-payment of outstanding salaries in recent months, a situation observers say could derail their Castle Lager Premier Soccer League title ambitions.Caps United overcame Triangle 2-1 at the weekend to reduce the gap between them and log leaders FC Platinum to just one point, with eight matches remaining in the campaign, thrusting themselves into a very strong position to win the championship for the first time since they won back-to-back league titles in 2004 and 2005 under Charles Mhlauri.While Kwashi said the pairing against Tsholotsho was tough, he said winning the Chibuku Super Cup would be most welcome as it would help ease their cash problems. With cup games it s a knockout competition, it s like a sprint because you have four games and every game is like a cup final. Winning the Chibuku Super Cup will be very important for our fans, and for the owner of the club, Farai Jere. He has been doing a fantastic job for the team in this harsh economic environment; and also board members Lewis Uriri, Nhamo Tutisani and Twine Phiri. We have a bunch of great individuals who have all supported the team, he said.Kwashi said the club was facing financial challenges and needed any funds coming their way. Any form of money into the club&#8217;s coffers will be welcome. We need it especially in these trying times, we are going through in Zimbabwe. So we will give it our best. We are known as the Cup Kings because we have won so many cups. So we know what is at stake and whoever will be given the job, will have to come to the party on the day, he said.Harare City are the defending champions after beating Dynamos in last year s final.Kwashi said they will continue to mount a challenge in the championship race as they seek to end a decade without winning the league title. The championship race has been very exciting for any football lover. We have seen leaders changing through the course, we have had relegation dog fights at the bottom, we also have had the resurgence of Ngezi FC Platinum. So we are just challenging ourselves to do better than we did last year. It s eight games remaining and nothing is guaranteed. We need to keep working hard, Kwashi said.The Green Machine host Chicken Inn at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday, hoping to keep sight of leaders FC Platinum, who have a tricky home tie against How Mine.