PRESIDENT Robert Mugabe is today expected to chair a Zanu PF politburo meeting ahead of Friday s central committee indaba, coming days after he unilaterally fired youth leader, Pupurai Togarepi, before the party s national disciplinary committee had concluded his case. BY RICHARD CHIDZAMugabe shocked many on Saturday after announcing Togarepi had been replaced by his deputy, Kudzanai Chipanga, seen as a leading light in the faction bitterly opposed to Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa s bid to replace the veteran 92 year-old leader.Togarepi is seen as a Mnangagwa ally.At the weekend, Mugabe is expected to address the women s league s national assembly, as speculation of moves to push to turn the party annual conference, set for Masvingo, into an extraordinary congress continued. The politburo will meet tomorrow (today), while the central committee convenes on Friday to deliberate on preparations for the annual conference and attend to disciplinary cases that are still hanging, sources said.The Zanu PF women s league has reportedly been pushing to have the annual conference turned into an elective indaba to force through a resolution to have a woman appointed as party vice-president. The move could mean Mnangagwa or his counterpart, Vice-President Phelekezela Mphoko, would have to be dropped. But women s league spokesperson, Thokozile Mathuthu played down the issue. I have never heard of an arm of the party pushing for anything, let alone the adoption and implementation of any of its resolution. Once it is passed, there is a party procedure that is followed, she said. I was not at the meeting and I am yet to see the minutes. But what I know is people debate issues and do not have to agree. Even Siamese twins also disagree, as far as I know, let alone those born of different mothers, but unfortunately the media wants to turn it around and claim there are fights. Zanu PF s national disciplinary committee, currently chaired by legal secretary and Finance. minister Patrick Chinamasa, was also supposed to meet this week to deliberate on outstanding cases.Among cases still to be decided is one of three suspended chairpersons, Kizito Chivamba (Midlands), Biggie Matiza (Mashonaland East) and Masvingo s Ezra Chadzamira, allegedly tried to stop party activists from travelling to Harare for a solidarity rally in February.While Chadzamira and Matiza were not available for comment, Chivamba seemed angry when contacted. Please leave me alone, he said.Togarepi and the league s secretary for administration, Lewis Matutu were suspended without charge and are yet to face justice. Togarepi has accepted his fate, while Matutu last week said his case had remained unresolved. I am waiting for my day and those responsible for my suspension are yet to lay a charge against me, Matutu, who has unsuccessfully tried to seek audience with Mugabe, said.