Chicken Inn . . . 0) 1 Hwange . . . . . . . 0CHICKEN Inn rose two places up the log standings to seventh position after beating visiting Hwange in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Luveve Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELEThe home side dominated possession and created the better chances of the two, but a Passmore Bernard penalty, on the hour mark, was all they needed to get maximum points.Match day referee, Martin Chivandire pointed to the spot after Hwange defender Wilfred Murweyi appeared to bring down Chicken Inn substitute, Ishmael Lawe inside the box.It was a welcome victory for the Rahman Gumbo-coached side, who were held to a one-all draw by log leaders FC Platinum last week. More crucially for them, the result will give them the much-needed confidence, as they head to Harare to face in-form Caps United on Sunday.With the win, the reigning league champions moved to 31 points.As for Hwange, their performance yesterday was a far cry from last week, where they scored five goals against Triangle in a 5-3 win. And this is not the kind of result they were looking for with the match against ZPC Kariba, unbeaten in their last five matches, coming up.In his post-match comments, Gumbo said: Let me put it diplomatically and say it was a matter of how many goals we were supposed to score. They (Hwange) did not give us any problem. We dominated the game, but we could not get more goals. That we are creating chances, shows that we are going somewhere. Gumbo heaped praises on his industrious skipper, Clemence Matawu, who had a good match.Hwange coach Mebelo Njekwa, however, differed: It was a tightly contested match, which any team could have won. We are fighting against relegation and we have to collect maximum points on Sunday. Matawu was brilliant yesterday and could have capped a perfect afternoon had he been more precise in front of goal especially in the 16th minute, when he was set up inside the box, but aimed straight at Hwange goalkeeper, Future Sibanda, who punched the effort away. George Majika also wasted another good chance for the home side in the 38th minute, while the away side, without top goal scorer, Gift Mbweti through suspension, offered very little going forward.Teams Chicken Inn: E Chipezeze, P Bernard, D Lunga, G Majika (I Lawe 55 ), N Muchadeyi (C Samekweri 65 ), M demera (T Hadebe 65 ), T Goredema, M Jackson, C Matawu, L Mhlanga, T KutinyuHwange: F Sibanda, A Chuma, D Boriwondo, G Ndlovu, W Murweyi, O Moyo, I Mucheneka (N Sianchali 71 ), C Muleya, C Banda (P Dube 60 ), G Zulu, P Mpelele (J Kaunda 85 )