Two journalists were recently killed in Pakistan despite claims by the government that its military operations have secured most big cities. DW analyzes why Pakistan continues to be an unsafe place for reporters. (11.09.2015) An anti-terrorism court has sentenced the head of Pakistan's Geo TV to 26 years in prison for airing a "blasphemous" show. Activists say the courts are being used by the security establishment to muzzle press freedom. (27.11.2014) A private news channel in Pakistan has come under sharp criticism for accusing the country's military of attempting to kill one of its journalists. The country's most popular channel now risks going off air. (24.04.2014) Hamid Mir, a popular Pakistani television host, has been severely injured after his car came under attack from unidentified gunmen on motorbikes. It is the latest in a wave of attacks on journalists. (20.04.2014) In a country full of contradictions, if media does not regulate itself soon, there are chances that the state could come up with arbitrary rules and regulations, says senior Pakistani journalist Owais Tohid. (02.05.2014) Pakistani police say media boss Abid Abdullah was nabbed by armed men who dragged him and his driver out of the car shortly after midnight Thursday after he left his hotel.The driver was released before Abdullah, director of the Jang media group which publishes the country's highest circulation Urdu and English-language newspapers, was driven away in a&nbsp; second vehicle that disappeared into the lawless tribal areas in the mountains above the city.Abdullah was reportedly in the city for a business meeting with local printers for the Urdu-language Jang newspaper, the best-selling newspaper in the country.The Jang group, which also owns Pakistan's popular and controversial television station Geo TV and several best-selling newspapers, have been reporting critically on Pakistan's intelligence services, military, senior politicians and&nbsp;rival Islamist insurgents.There has been no word on possible motive in the kidnapping.&nbsp;It's not the first time high-profile media figures from Jang group have been targeted. Hamid Mir, a prominent journalist working for Geo TV, was attacked&nbsp;in the southern city of Karachi in 2014&nbsp;and survived.Pakistan is considered one of the most dangerous places in the world for reporters; more than 50 journalists have been killed there in the last decade and a half.jar/kl (Reuters, dpa)The 2016 winner of Deutsche Welle's Best of the Blogs (The Bobs) prize for citizen journalism, the documentary "Razor's Edge" examines the situation that many secular bloggers and writers face in Bangladesh after attacks have left numerous people dead at the hands of religious extremists, including four in the last five weeks, because of their writing."Frame By Frame" follows four of Afghanistan's new crop of young photojournalists, who're learning how to shoot stories after years of living under a regime which banned photography. After a screening at the US Embassy in Kabul, seven journalists from the local TOLO news were killed in a suicide bombing, driving home the dangers these journalists face every day.Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein were two journalists working for the "Washington Post" who led the investigation of US President Richard Nixon's role in the Watergate hotel break-in that eventually led to his resignation. The pair wrote of their experience in "All the President's Men" which was made into a film by Robert Redford.Filmed in black and white to capture the atmosphere of broadcast journalism's early days "Good Night and Good Luck" stars George Clooney and focuses on tv newsman Edward R. Murrow's fight to expose the tactics employed in the US by Senator Joseph McCarthy in his 1953 "Red Scare" campaign to uncover "Communists" in the government and celebrity circles, a label which ruined many careers at the time.The lawsuit by Reverend Jerry Falwell against Larry Flynt, the publisher of the nude magazine "Hustler" serves as the backdrop of the 1996 film the "People vs. Larry Flynt." The film about the controversial pornography publisher shows his clash with religious institutions and the law.Three young women bloggers are the focus of Zurich-based director Barbara Miller's documentary (2012). From Cuba, China and Iran respectively, Yoani S nchez, Zeng Jinyan und Farnaz Seifi use social media to bring awareness to the world about life under the dictatorial regimes in their homelands. Their work gets so much attention that they end up risking their lives to get the stories out.Danish Filmmaker Anders stergaard focuses on the drama that unfolded in Burma in 2007 after Buddhist nuns and monks took to the streets to protest drastic price increases. After the protests turned against the country's military leaders, international news teams were kicked out of the country and filming could only be done in secret.Germany's "Der Spiegel" news magazine published an article about the sad state of the West German military in 1962, an article which brought out such an immense rage in Defense Minister Franz Josef Strau that a search of the magazine's office was conducted. The arrests of editors led to an uproar among citizens who saw it as an attack on press freedom and protested, as this ARD film portrays. Author: Courtney Tenz / Conny Paul