When Felipe Gomes gets off the bus after returning to the entrance to his favela after a hard training session, he doesn't have to wait for a taxi. Favela motorcycle taxis virtually stand in line up to drive him home. "As soon as I show up, I have a minimum of three riders waiting to bring home me on a motorbike - for free," Gomes says. Surrounded by journalists in the press area of the Olympic Stadium he laughs off the skepticism about where he lives. Growing up blind in the one of the biggest and most dangerous favelas that Rio de Janeiro has to offer was no obstacle for him. Fast track Gomes displayed a wealth of talent and determination from the very beginning, even though he was told from the age of four that he wouldn't be able to run for long. Gomes has suffered from Glaucoma since birth. By six he had begun to lose his sight. He suffered from cataracts and a detached retina before going completely blind. Had he been born rich it may have been a different story, as expensive treatment might have saved his eyesight. Instead, he was sent to a school for the blind.Gomes (left) is a regular guest on the medals podiumHe ran his first race in 2003, when he was 17. This turned out to be the start of a rapid rise in his fortunes. Shortly afterwards, a friend invited him to a competition involving various associations. Felipe Gomes promptly won his first medal and two years later he became a member of the Brazilian national team. In 2006 he began to compete internationally, going to the world championships, the disabled Pan American Games and the Paralympics. So far, his gold medal in the 200-meter sprint and bronze in the 100 meters at the 2012 Paralympics in London have been his crowing achievements. However, Gomes was far from done - he continues to win one title after another. Respected in the favela In Gomes' favela which is called Mar , everybody now knows the blind sprinter's name. "Even the bandits greet me on the street and congratulate me when I have won something," he says with a laugh. "People here respect me." This gives him confidence. And when there has been another shoot-out, he simply stays at home. Gomes lives alone but his mother and sister live close by. He could afford to move someplace better. "But I can not do that to my mother," the 30-year-old Gomes laughs. But every Brazilian knows that he is quite a serious guy. Moreover, he finds help at every turn, the local community supports him. And he is well aware of the many obstacles that make life in the favela difficult - not only for the blind. There are uneven roads, countless potholes, sidewalks that are entirely absent. But Gomes is used to it. After all, he grew up here.Gomes came up with the silver in the 200-meter dash Complete commitment Gomes leads an independent life, which he has dedicated entirely to his sport. He gets up at 5:30 every morning, before making the half-hour journey on three buses to get to his training facility. He starts out with his sprinting training, and then he works out in the weight room before heading to physical therapy. He completes this nine-hour routine six times every week. "This is a very hard program, both from a sporting and organizational point of view. But then when you win a medal, it's all worth it," he says. His determination has paid off financially. Gomes has something that very few here have - a regular income. He is subsidized by the state and also as a sponsor, which means that he is able to make a living from his sport.Gomes never tires of telling his story Gomes never tires of telling his story - an example which shows that if you are determined enough, you really can overcome all of your difficulties and make it to the top. He aims to counter prejudices - against both the disabled and people from favelas. "I am proud of my heritage and I am proud to represent Brazil at the Paralympics," he says. "I have prepared for this for years. My biggest dream is to stand on the podium in my hometown. Success at the Rio Games Gomes has already made that dream reality by winning gold with Brazil in the 4x100 relay, silver in the 100-meter and silver in his best event, the 200. When the multiple medal winner returns to his slum next week, the motorcycle taxis will be waiting for him, even though he won't really need them. Felipe Gomes is not only the fastest blind man in the world, he is also the fastest man in the favela.