THE Zimbabwe Musicians Union (Zimu) is this afternoon set tohost an educational session under the banner Entertainment Law Clinics at Music Cross Roads Academy in Belgravia meant to empower musicians so that they become conversant with laws governing their industry. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOThe session will feature legal practitioner, Gwinyai Mharapara and veteran music producer, Clive Mono Mukundu.Topics set for discussion include marketing and distributions, as well as studio contracts.Zimu interim president, Edith WeUtonga, said the project was aimed at equipping local musicians with an understanding of the laws governing music contracts. As Zimbabwe Musicians Union, we have realised that many artistes were getting into trouble after signing contracts without understanding the terms and conditions. So, as a union, we thought the clinics would help empower artistes, she said.WeUtonga said they had already started working out other schemes, including financial literacy programmes, in partnership with some financial institutions, to educate members on applying proper business and accounting models in their trade.Mukundu said the event would help to equip artistes so they avoid unnecessary contractual disagreements. It is important for an artiste to be aware of his or her rights that governs them in their line of duty. I am a victim of unpaid work that I partially owned, as I was not aware of these entertainment laws. So I lost huge sums of money, he said. Most artistes are just passion-driven and ignore the professional side of things, including the importance of contracts, and this has caused a lot of unnecessary court battles. Local music marketing and distribution company, Jive Zimbabwe director, Benjamin Nyandoro, applauded Zimu s initiative, saying it was high time artistes gave due diligence to laws that oversee their operations and seek their understanding. The entertainment clinics provide artistes, among other arts stakeholders, with requisite tools and skills to engage as service providers. This initiative must be supported by the relevant stakeholders, he said.