HARARE City make the trip to Chapungu today with a severely depleted squad due to injuries. The Sunshine City Boys, who have won their last two matches against Bulawayo City and Ngezi Platinum, make the journey to Midlands Ascot Stadium without the defence pair of Diro Nyenye and Jimmy Tigere, who are nursing injuries. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAMidfielder Learnmore Muyambo has also been ruled out of the trip for the same reason and coach Moses Chunga believes the situation has made the fixture against the airmen a tricky one. It s a tough assignment against Chapungu, considering we have key players out of the tie because of injury, he said after the team s training session at Rufaro yesterday. We have Jimmy, Nyenye and Learnmore, who are all out because of injury. It will not be easy, but whoever will be selected to play, will have to give everything. We have to work hard and shoot down the airmen. Bambo said he was happy with the team s mini revival, which has seen his side winning their last two matches, including a victory over Tonderai Ndiraya s Ngezi Platinum FC.Ndiraya had beaten all former Dynamos sons, including Sunday Chidzambwa and David Mandigora, after taking over as Ngezi FC Platinum coach, but found the going tough against Bambo, who handed him a 2-1 defeat. I am quite happy with the progress we have made so far. Like I said before, I am one man who is not satisfied with being second best and I am also happy this has been understood by the technical team. So, we want to keep on working hard and keep improving, Chunga said.Harare City are in sixth place with 32 points, three behind fifth-placed Dynamos and a win over Chapungu will bring them among the top four.On the other hand, Chapungu, who sit on 12th position with 27 points, suffered a 1-0 loss to Dynamos in the previous encounter and will be looking to get a win that will see them moving up the ladder.Meanwhile, Harare City held a draw for the third edition of their annual Under-12 football tournament at the club s homeground, Rufaro, yesterday.The junior football tourney will see 32 council schools from Harare divided into four zones that will battle it out for top honours. This is a great initiative by Harare City from which the club is beginning to reap the rewards. I came to the club and I saw a lot of talented youngsters, some of whom are knocking for places in the senior team, Bambo said. This is how you create the next Paul Pobga (the world s most expensive footballer), worth millions of dollars, when properly done. This is in line with my vision for the club, which is to produce gems that will put our country on the map and add to the country s fiscal revenue. 