IF an injury has to be done to a man, it should be so severe that his vengeance need not be feared. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAThis is what Dynamos would be probably thinking, as they make the trip to Bulawayo to face old foes Highlanders in a potentially feisty Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday.The Glamour Boys had dominated their league meetings with Highlanders since 2006, when Bulawayo giants won the championship in a memorable campaign under Methembe Ndlovu.Their clashes had become so predictable, that even on a day Highlanders dominated play, Dynamos would somehow outclass their opponents on the score sheet.The Bosso faithful have been wondering whether they were cursed, as they struggled to find the answer to beat Dynamos. Different coaches came and left and none managed to halt the poor run against Dynamos.But as they say, every dog has its day.In the reverse fixture in May, Highlanders, now under the guidance of Dutch coach, Elroy Akbay, did not need the support of their home fans to break the long standing hoodoo.That they did it at Rufaro Stadium a venue that is usually a nightmare for visiting teams, including Highlanders, made their victory even sweeter.Young striker, Prince Dube and Bruce Kangwa, who has since moved on, were on target for the Bulawayo giants, who celebrated the victory as if they had won the championship, while their opponents left the pitch shoulders slumped and faces crumbled in frustration.But Dynamos team manager, Richard Chihoro reckons that the defeat to Bosso was a minor dent, declaring they would be out to remind Highlanders who big brother was. We have to win that match. We know it will not be easy at Barbourfields, but we have to go there and collect all three points. It will be sweet revenge for us after they beat us at Rufaro. It will serve as reminder that we are still big boys. We have no injury worries for now and are looking forward to the match, he said.Dynamos record over Highlanders at Barbourfields Stadium in recent years has been impressive, if not imperious, something that should give the Harare giants, confidence.Since that 2-0 defeat in 2006, Dynamos have not lost their league matches at the Barbourfields Stadium, winning five and drawing four. DeMbare scored 11 goals in those duels, against Highlanders four. Both teams go into the match with their confidence high, Highlanders coming from a 2-1 victory over a stubborn Border Strikers, while Dynamos edged Chapungu 1-0 in last weekend s matches, setting the stage for a bruising contest.Highlanders lie third on the table, with 38 points, six behind leaders FC Platinum, while Dynamos are fifth position with 35 points, with eight matches remaining in the campaign.