Like all other projects, a procurement project has a life span. It has about nine stages that start with the identification of needs up to review of the process after project completion. Emphasis and oversight are concentrated mainly on issues around approaching the market and contract award. Critical issues of contract planning and contract management are not effectively managed undermining the capacity of organisations to effectively manage projects to completion. NYASHA CHIZUThe nine activities in a procurement cycle start, with need identification followed by project initiation. The market is, therefore, analysed in view of the need identified. Specifications for the needs identified are then developed after the market has been consulted. A plan is then developed as to how the market is approached. The market is then approached to select the supplier. The selected supplier is negotiated with in order to award the contract. The contract is then managed to completion and the project is reviewed after completion.The nine activities listed above are divided into procurement planning, sourcing and contract management. Five of the activities from need identification to planning the approach to the market constitute procurement planning. Sourcing and contract management have two activities apiece. In view of the information above, 55% of procurement activities are in the planning stage.If one reviews the job description of a procurement professional, how much relates to procurement planning? It is not surprising that some job descriptions of procurement managers do not have a planning element, whereas planning is more than 50% of their activities. There is an old adage that relates to planning failure to plan is planning to fail .It is imperative that project procurement is effectively planned. The needs must be described in a manner that is understood by the market. The requirements must suit the environment. Major projects such as the Plumtree-Mutare highway rehabilitation have been under the spotlight on matters around the quality. Barely less than a year before the completion of some sections, the road has already given-in in areas of high traffic, the tarmac is melting and moving creating ridges in the road. Road markings are fading and becoming invisible during the night.A review of the procurement process points to the fact that the need was appropriately identified, but there is no evidence that the market was consulted to develop specifications. This is the problem with major projects of a capital nature. The process of procurement planning is an activity effectively coordinated by the procurement function since the design of specifications would require a variety of skills outside the procurement function. It points to the fact that procurement staff need to be developed to effectively manage the critical element of planning, which is at the core of project success.The other critical element often ignored is contract management. There has been a tendency of mixing contract management with project management. Project management involves the physical management of the project that is normally done by technical staff. Contract management is the responsibility of procurement function to ensure rights and obligations in a contract are managed. The effectiveness of procurement function in contract management is enhanced when the procurement staff is involved at contract negotiations that leads to the contract award.Procurement has traditionally been sidelined in the contract management and contract award at the detriment of effective contract management. Going forward, it is critical that adequate resources are set aside for procurement planning activities and that procurement is involved in contract negotiations and awards to enhance effective contract management.Nyasha Chizu is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply writing in his personal capacity. Feedback: nya.chizu@gmail.com Skype: Nyasha.chizu