Nice 0-1 Schalke (Baba Rahman 75') Abdul Baba Rahman scored his first goal since joining Schalke on loan as the Bundesliga club beat former Borussia M nchengladbach coach Lucien Favre's Nice on the French Riviera. A scrappy first half was followed by a tight second as Nice looked to keep their record of having never lost a home UEFA Cup or Europa League match intact. The French side included former Bayern and Gladbach defender Dante and ex-Liverpool striker Mario Balotelli. Schalke substitute Max Meyer unlocked the Nice defense with a clever reverse pass, allowing Baba Rahman, on loan from Chelsea, to rifle in a low shot inside the near post and secure the win. For the better part of half an hour, Mainz looked to be on their way to a win Mainz 1-1 Saint-Etienne (Bungert 57' Beric 88') Mainz were held to a 1-1 draw by French side Saint-Etienne, who grabbed an 88th-minute equalizer. Coming off the back of their deflating 4-4 draw with Hoffenheim in the Bundesliga at the weekend, Mainz looked to make amends on their Europa League group-stage debut. Things were going according to plan when captain Niko Bungert nodded in the opener just before the hour mark to give the Germans the lead, but with time running out, Saint-Etienne s Robert Beric restored parity. The result means Saint-Etienne have won only three of 18 matches against German opposition. Feyenoord 1-0 Manchester United (Vilhena 79 )The strong United side picked by Jose Mourinho failed to find a goal in Rotterdam Europa League favorites Manchester United suffered a surprise 1-0 defeat at Feyenoord, with Tonny Vilhena firing the Dutch club to a famous win. Despite making eight changes, United coach Jose Mourinho fielded a strong team that included Paul Pogba, David de Gea and Marcus Rashford, with Zlatan Ibrahimovic introduced as a second-half substitute. However, the most expensive team in club football couldn t avoid a second defeat in a week following a painful defeat by bitter rivals Manchester City at Old Trafford on Saturday. Careless in possession and lacking a cutting edge up front, United paid for their lethargic display in the 79th minute. Exposed down the right flank by a Nicolai Jorgensen's run that beat the offside trap, United's defenders were noticeable by their absence when the unmarked Vilhena swept home from just inside the penalty area. Other Europa League results: Qarabag 2-2 Liberec Zorya 1-1 Fenerbahce APOEL 2-1 Astana Anderlecht 3-1 Gabala Maccabi Tel-Aviv 3-4 Zenit Astra 2-3 Austria Vienna Sassuolo 3-0 Athletic Bilbao Young Boys 0-1 Olympiacos AZ 1-1 Dundalk Plzen 1-1 Roma Rapid Vienna 3-2 Genk Inter Milan 0-2 Hapoel Beer-Sheva Standard Liege 1-1 Celta Vigo Panathinaikos 1-2 Ajax Konyaspor 0-1 Shakhtar Braga 1-1 Gent Salzburg 0-1 Krasnodar PAOK 0-0 Fiorentina Southampton 3-0 Sparta Prague Osmanlispor 2-0 Steaua Villarreal 2-1 Z rich