DW: What is the current climate like in Germany for aeronautics and space technologies? Rolf Henke: Science and technology in German is on a good path, because our federal government really supports it. It puts money into the system. In terms of aeronautics and space, the situation is slightly different, because this is more industry-oriented. We're an applied science, which is a bit different from fundamental science. But over all we're in good shape, and we're celebrating a motto of "high-tech from Germany" at [our annual] conference this week, and it's a good one for the next few years too. You mention applied science - it is the one we understand best. We're more willing to put money into it. But with fundamental science, it's often a problem to convince people why it's important. German astronaut Alexander Gerst spoke here in Braunschweig about the Milky Way as one of the areas we need more research, and on Wednesday (14.9.2016) the first data is released from Europe's Gaia Mission to map the Milky Way. In your experience, do people really understand why we need to map a billion stars as Gaia aims to do? And are they willing to put money into that? I hope they are. Because we desperately need fundamental science in order for us to have applied science down the track. Fundamental science is always the basis - it's in the very word. So let's do the fundamental science at universities, partially at research centers, too. Then let's put that into applied science, and put that into innovations, and products. And then let's earn money with it.Henke: We can't take science funding for granted Gerst also mentioned funding for the International Space Station. Is there the political will in Germany to fund science at this time? You say we're in good health, but does that really follow through to proper funding at a time when we have lots of other political issues to deal with? There's uncertainty about Europe's economic future. And while Germany says it's open to letting young scientists come here, Europe has a immigration issue... So is the political will really there? It's hard to say. But look at it from another perspective: the problems you mention, like migration. On one hand this is a human problem. And on the other hand you need all the technology in aeronautics and space, such as satellites to watch ocean routes, for instance. Or you may need drones - transport aircraft - for food, etcetera. You need the technologies from aeronautics and space to cope with the migration problem. So it wouldn't make sense to say, We need to take care of that and not any of the other things. You have to see the whole picture. So in a broader sense, but still in terms of migration and young scientists, what does Germany have to offer? What makes it special? Well Germany's still in a healthy position in Europe. Our economy is good, so we can afford to put even more money into universities and research centers. We have a healthy and innovation-friendly environment, and that helps. And people from abroad see we do quite a lot in Germany. What are the specific areas in technological development, where you would say Germany has a particular strong point? One example is 3D printing, or additive layer manufacturing. Most of the machines which do 3D printing come from Germany. So this is a clear benefit we have in Germany. We want to work more on this, and to keep this pace going. But we're also strong on numerics. We have numerical methods which are accepted worldwide - not just in aerospace but generally in engineering. We're healthy. But it's not to be taken for granted. We have to keep working on that to get the funding. Right now we have funding, and I hope we keep it. And what about the weaknesses? What are Germany's weak points? Again, that's hard to say. We're not alone in the world, and we have to find our way within Europe. And Germany is still struggling with its role in Europe. We can't solve everything all on our own. Take aeronautics and the Airbus Group as an example - Airbus is a four-nation product, it's very transnational. So all the German solutions taken on their own won't help. We need to align more in European and international terms, and this is where we could be a little bit better. Professor Rolf Henke is the president of the German Aerospace Society (DGLR), an umbrella organization concerned with space and aeronautics. The German Aerospace Center (DLR) is a separate body - and Germany's space agency.