German Chancellor Angela Merkel and her conservative Christian Democrats (CDU) met with leaders from their Bavarian sister party, the Christian Social Democrats (CSU), on Thursday in an effort to smooth over tensions between the parties.Germany's conservative parties seem to be headed toward consensus on the refugee issue. At issue is whether Germany should impose a cap on asylum seekers. But will a compromise really reestablish harmony and security? (20.09.2016) Bavaria's conservatives have agreed on a list of changes they want made to the government's refugee policy. However, party leader Horst Seehofer is seeking to avoid a confrontation with Chancellor Angela Merkel. (10.09.2016) Merkel's words have fallen upon deaf ears in the CSU, whose party line appears to be more radical than the AfD's. It's heating up to be an interesting weekend of politics in Germany, writes DW's Kay-Alexander Scholz. (08.09.2016) Both parties appeared to be optimistic following the two-hour meeting and said the discussions had a "good, constructive atmosphere," according to sources in the CDU/CSU. "There were very substantial talks on long-term topics," CSU head Horst Seehofer said following the meeting, adding that he was "very pleased." The two parties discussed reorganizing the financial flows between Germany's states and the federal government, as well as retirement and equal pay. Leaders also discussed immigration and refugee policies, which have been a source of tension between the CDU and CSU for months. Both conservative parties have said they share a desire to limit refugees, but have yet to compromise concerning a proposed cap of 200,000. The number has been suggested as a "figure of orientation" by the chairwoman of the CSU parliamentary group in the Bundestag, Gerda Hasselfeldt. Thursday's meeting did not bring any further resolutions, but seemed to be a step forward for bringing the two conservative sister parties back on the same page, with Seehofer describing the discussions as "wonderful." rs/kl (AFP, dpa, Reuters) Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1K6q5