Belgravia Sports ClubAward winning South African musicians Mthokozisi Khathi, better known as DJ Tira and Bucie will tomorrow headline Delta Beverages Golden Pilsner Afro fusion concert set for this Saturday at Belgravia Sports Club in Harare. The concert themed, Come Cheer on the Legends will see the visiting duo sharing the stage with Jah Prayzah and Ammara Brown alongside club wheel spinners DJs Ray Dizz, T Base, Fujee and Seleckta Base who will be rocking it on the decks at the potentially explosive concert. COMPILED BY WINSTONE ANTONIOCircus Night ClubThe once popular Circus Night Club, located at Strathaven Shopping Centre in Harare, re-open its doors to the public tonight under new management. The club that has been closed for several years has been upgraded and divided into three bars the VIP lounge, the main bar and a cocktail bar. Talented musician Andy Muridzo and Lady Eriza Storm will entertain guest at the event.Time and Jazz Caf Afro-fusion jazz musician Alexio Kawara and his Shades of Black tonight performs at the recently opened home of jazz, Time and Jazz Caf located at corner Nelson Mandela and 6th Street in Harare. Tomorrow veteran wheel spinner Ronald D-Train Chiwanza and friends host an old school party at the joint.Borrowdale Race CourseJah Prayzah and his Third Generation band tomorrow headlines the Air force of Zimbabwe charity derby, air day and fashion expo at Borrowdale Race Course supported by Sulumani Chimbetu, Don Gaga, Brian D and AFZ band among others. Music Cross Roads AcademyZimbabwe Musicians Union today presents Entertainment Law Clinics at Music Cross Roads Academy located at number 10 Natal road in Belgravia, Harare featuring guest speakers who include law makers among them Gwinyai Mharapara and veteran music producer Mono Mukundu. Among the issues to be discussed at the event include marketing and distribution, studio contracts. Theatre in the Park, Harare GardensMbira Queen Hope Masike celebrates her earthday tonight with a stage romance alongside Jazz musician Victor Kunonga at Theatre in the Park, Harare Gardens. The well-travelled Masike has turned 32. Anglican Cathedral HallRising gospel diva Jennifer Maneni tonight launches her DVD album titled His Grace at Anglican Cathedral Hall situated at corner second street and Nelson Mandela in Harare Ice &#038; Fire PamuzindaThe Third Generation band fronted by Jah Prayzah tonight entertains revellers at Ice &#038; Fire Pamuzinda located in the neighbourhood of Kuwadzana Extension along Bulawayo road. The Kumbumura Mhute hitmaker will share the stage with rising musician Mbeu and The Mhodzi Tribe alongside dancehall chanter Platinum Prince.Jazz 24/7Popular rhumba outfit, Diamond Musica tonight performs at the recently opened home of jazz, Jazz 24/7 located at corner Sam Nujoma Street and Robson Manyika Avenue in Harare.Dutch Reformed ChurchSaints of God frontman, Mathias Mhere tomorrow headlines a gospel concert at Dutch Reformed Church in Harare featuring several musicians among them his young brother Daniel, One Accord Choir and the Reformed Worship ChoirPensao Portugal RestaurantSungura prodigy Romeo Gasa supported by his Extra Valembe outfit tonight launches his eighth album Bhoo Zvekuti at Pensao Portugal Restaurant situated at number 136 Samora Machel Avenue, Harare. At the launch, the Simbi Hombe hit maker will be supported by Tendai Dembo and Gary Tight.The Volt Night ClubHip Hop musician TI Gonzi tomorrow launches his album at The Volt Night Club located at number 30 Samora Machel Avenue and Sixth Street in the capital. The musician will be supported by Briss Mbada, Tiara Baluti, Schingy ZW and dancehall Takarangana Night ClubMbare bred dancehall musician Killer T tomorrow entertains revellers at Takarangana Night Club in Hatcliff supported by Empress CC, Major T and Fizzman alongside DJ TK Plus, DJ Cables and DJ Elskot who will be rocking it on the turntables. AFM Yobel Fellowship CenterGospel musician Mathias Mhere will be part of the performers at the Trumpet of Jubilee Celebration Day show at Apostolic Faith Mission Yobel Fellowship Center tomorrow in Mufakose. The Favour hitmaker will be share the stage with rising and talented Kuda Mutsvene, Plaxedes Meck, Jacob Manwa, Pastor Josh Kays, Family Worship Choral Group and Pianos Jaravaza among others. Manicaland Motoring ClubThe grand dad of Zimbabwean music Oliver Tuku Mtukudzi will be in the border city of Mutare tonight to entertains patrons at Manicaland Motoring ClubClub Mandisa, MutarePamela Gonyeti Zulu, a former Jah Prayzah key dancer-cum vocalist tomorrow performs at Club Mandisa in Mutare backed by her Horse Power Band alongside dancehall singer Guspy Warrior.Chinotimba Beer HallChinotimba Beer Hall in Victoria Falls tomorrow host the Matebeleland North Chibuku Road to Fame provincials finals with the ultimate winners getting the bragging rights to represent the province at the national finals, which will feature champions from the country s 10 provinces, set for September 24 at Glamis Stadium in Harare. ENDS