About a thousand North Koreans defect to South Korea every year, usually through China.But on Thursday an unidentified&nbsp;North Korean soldier took a dangerous shortcut through heavily mined territory bound with razor-sharp concertina wire, with tens of thousands of armed soldiers on both sides.Fighting in the Korean War war ended 60 years ago. Meanwhile, North and South Korea have grown further and further apart. For the 25,000 North Koreans who've defected to the south since 1953, fitting in is a challenge. (24.07.2013) North Korea's deputy ambassador in London has fled to Seoul with his wife and son, according to South Korean officials. The man, Thae Yong Ho, is one of the highest-ranking diplomats ever to abandon the Pyongyang regime. (17.08.2016) In a rare occurrence, a North Korean soldier has walked over the heavily fortified land border to the South and defected. The incident did not spark any military activity from either side. (15.06.2015) North Korea has drawn condemnation from Japan and the US after the apparent test of a submarine-launched missile. The launch comes a day after the US and South Korea announced a new missile defense system. (09.07.2016) South Korea says the No. 2 official at the North Korean embassy in London was the North's most senior diplomat to defect to the South. This is the latest in a series of defections from Kim Jong Un's totalitarian state. (20.08.2016) South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff said the man managed to cross unscathed at about 10 a.m. (0100 UTC) without a shot fired by either side.&nbsp;"He is now being held in custody for questioning,"&nbsp;the JCS said.The last time a soldier was able to defect over the four-kilometer (2.5-mile)-wide DMZ was last year when a teenage North Korean soldier surrendered himself to South Korean border guards at Hwacheon, northeast of Seoul.Tension has been boiling on the Korean peninsula since the communist North conducted its fourth nuclear test at the beginning of the year and followed it with an unprecedented string of missile tests, and then its fifth and largest nuclear test this month.The Koreas have shared the world's most heavily fortified border since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War. The conflict ended with a ceasefire - not a peace treaty - leaving the Korean Peninsula in a technical state of war that occasionally boils over in exchanges of live fire.More than 29,000 North Koreans have defected to capitalist South Korea since the end of the truce. The most prominent defector was Thae Yong Ho, the North's deputy ambassador to the United Kingdom, who became the highest-ranking diplomat to defect when he arrived last month in Seoul.North Korea has branded defactors as disloyal "human scum."jar/es (AP, AFP, Reuters)The reporters from AP covered over 2,150 kilometers (1,336 miles), in a country of barely 25,000 kilometers of roads, merely 724 of those paved. They came back with only their photos as evidence of the life in the northern part of the secluded country. In the picture: A woman walks along a road southeast of Pyongyang in North Korea's North Hwanghae province.A North Korean man sits by a cooking fire he built to roast potatoes and chicken in the town of Samjiyon, in Ryanggang province. Possibly more than any other populated place on earth, North Korea is terra incognita, but the AP team was granted access to see North Korea and travel through places that, they were told, no foreign journalist and few foreigners had been allowed to see before.A boulder lies on a path near the peak of Mount Paektu in North Korea's Ryanggang province. North Koreans venerate Mount Paektu for its natural beauty, but more importantly because it is considered the home of the North Korean revolution. They also consider the mountain sacred as the place of their ancestral origin.Farmers walk in a rainstorm with their cattle near the town of Hyesan, North Korea in Ryanggang province. "To get out of Pyongyang, we weaved our way around buses, streetcars, the black sedans of party officials and fleets of colorful new taxis that have over the past few years become commonplace," says Eric Talmadge, one of the jourmalists who participated in the journey.Young North Korean schoolchildren help to fix pot holes in a rural road in North Korea's North Hamgyong province. The country's best road is the 200-kilometer stretch of highway connecting the capital to the east coast port city of Wonsan. Beyond Wonsan, potholes, cracks or sudden patches of dirt road make travel a bumpy experience.North Korean residents walk on along a river in the town of Kimchaek, in North Korea's North Hamgyong province. The once-productive cities along its east coast, like the coal mining town of Kilju and the nearby city of Kimchaek - built around a sprawling but now eerily quiet ironworks complex - have become a rust belt, gritty and relentlessly gray.The remains of lunch left on a restaurant table in the city of Wonsan, North Korea. The government "minders" accompanied the journalists throughout the entire trip. Like foreign tourists, the AP team only saw a bare trace of the deprivation residents experience. Most of the country's citizens cannot afford proper housing, let alone a visit to a restaurant.The journalists' itineary was dictated by North Korea's terms. There would be no stopping to interview random people. "It's quite possible none of them had ever seen an American before," said AP's Eric Talmadge, "but our presence went unacknowledged. No glances were exchanged. No words were spoken." Here boys are playing soccer in the town of Hyesan, in the northern Ryanggang province.North Korean men share a picnic lunch and North Korean-brewed and bottled Taedonggang beer along the road in North Korea's North Hwanghae province. This year, according to United Nations experts, the country could come closer to feeding itself than it has in decades. But hunger remains a serious problem, with a third of North Korean children stunted in growth due to poor nutrition.A farmer carries a fully grown cabbage after harvesting it from the main crop which will be harvested early November, on the outskirts of Pyongyang. About four-fifths of North Korea's land is too rugged to farm. Providing enough food to feed the nation is a struggle for North Korea, which suffered a near cataclysmic famine in the 1990s.A man works on his car as others sit next to the Wonsan Sea in North Korea. For the most part, AP's reporters were not allowed to detour from their pre-approved route, which, to no one's surprise, did not include nuclear facilities or prison camps.A group of young North Koreans enjoys a picnic on the beach in Wonsan. "Even on the loneliest of lonely highways, we would never be without a 'minder,' whose job was to monitor and supervise our activities," Talmadge explains. "We were not to take photographs of any checkpoints or military installations."North Korean people rest next to the railroad tracks in a town in North Korea's North Hamgyong province. "Though we would not get to know the people along the way, the country itself had a great deal to say. And it was opening up before us," Talmadge said upon his return. "We had been granted unprecedented access." Author: Dana Regev