Beate Zsch pe, the last known surviving member of a German neo-Nazi group accused of a spate of racist murders, broke her silence in a Munich court on Thursday, personally speaking for the first time since the trial against her began in 2013.Along with the deceased Uwe Mundlos and Uwe B hnhardt, Zsch pe was a member of the National Socialist Underground (NSU). The NSU is thought to be behind the murder of nine Turkish-Germans and one police officer between 2000 and 2007. They are also accused of carrying&nbsp;out a series of nail-bomb attacks in immigrant neighborhoods.For years, neo-Nazis of the right-wing organization National Socialist Underground (NSU) were killing people across Germany. The suspects: Uwe Mundlos, Uwe B hnhardt (center) and Beate Zsch pe. Their victims: eight people of Turkish origin, one Greek man and a German policewoman. Their motive: obvious xenophobia. Until 2011, the German public was not aware of the scope of their crimes.The murder spree was uncovered on November 4, 2011 when Mundlos and B hnhardt robbed a bank in the east German town of Eisenach. For the first time, they failed. Police officers surrounded the caravan in which the two men were holed up. A later investigation concluded that Mundlos first shot and killed B hnhardt, then set the caravan on fire and killed himself.Shortly after the death of B hnhardt and Mundlos there was an explosion at Fr hlingsstra e 26 in Zwickau, in the state of Saxony. Beate Zsch pe lived at that address together with the two bank robbers. Zsch pe allegedly set the house on fire to destroy evidence. Four days later, she turned herself in to the police. The terror suspect has been in pre-trial custody since that day.In the ruins of the Zwickau flat, police officers found a self-made video in which the terror cell claimed responsibility under the name of the NSU, the National-Socialist Underground. The 15-minute video shows crime scenes and pictures of the victims killed by the right-wing terrorist group between 2000 and 2007.Famous cartoon character The Pink Panther hosts the amateur video, which is full of slogans of hatred against people with an immigrant background and which mocks the murder victims. Before her arrest, Zsch pe allegedly sent out copies of the video in which the NSU claimed responsibility for the crimes.Until 2011, the term "d ner murders" was frequently used when reporting about the killings. Nothing was known about the connection between the individual cases, nor about the motive. There were rumors the victims were linked to the drug scene. But the NSU's video left no doubt. The term "d ner murders" was chosen as Germany's "Unwort des Jahres" (doublespeak of the year) in 2011."The findings made by our security authorities so far show no indication of a terrorist background, but of a criminal milieu," said German Interior Minister Otto Schily on June 10, 2004. A day earlier, a pipe bomb explosion in Cologne left 22 people injured and many shops damaged. In 2011, it became clear: the NSU s right-wing terrorists were also behind the Cologne bombing.On February 23, 2012, Germany commemorated the victims. At the ceremony at a Berlin concert hall, the focus was on the relatives of the victims. Semiya Simsek (right), the daughter of the murdered flower stand owner Enver Simsek, gave an emotional speech. German Chancellor Angela Merkel made an official apology to the victims and promised them that all questions would be answered.On November 4, 2012, exactly a year after the terror cell was uncovered, people in many German cities staged solidarity demonstrations against right-wing extremism. The protesters called for thorough investigations into the racially motivated murders - which in their view was not happening fast enough."Dortmund is a colorful, tolerant and welcoming town and opposes right-wing extremism!" This statement was made by mayor Ullrich Sierau at the unveiling of the memorial stone for NSU victim Mehmet Kubasik in September 2012. The memorial was set up just meters away from the kiosk in which Kubasik was killed on April 4, 2006. Author: Anna Peters / nh After years of the trio living together in hiding, Mundlos and B hnhardt died in an apparent murder-suicide in 2011, the same year Zsch pe turned herself in to the police.In a short statement, 41-year-old Zsch pe told the court that as a young woman in eastern Germany in the aftermath of reunification, she "indeed identified with nationalist ideology." Today, however, she said: "I judge people not by their origin and political affiliation but by their behavior.""I regret my own misconduct," she added, "I condemn what Uwe Mundlos and Uwe B hnhardt did to the victims."Zsch pe had previously addressed the court in a statement she wrote but which was read by her lawyer.Zsch pe has admitted to an arson charge, but has ardently denied committing the murders. Prosecutors believe that she aided in bank robberies and bomb attacks&nbsp;and that she helped cover the men's tracks after the killings were committed. In a 53-page deposition, she claimed she only stayed with the pair after the fact because she feared going to jail.The crime spree was originally blamed on Turkish-German organized crime, to the great embarrassment of security officials when the truth was discovered. Questions have also arisen as to how the cell could go undetected for so many years.es/kms (AP, AFP)