Dynamos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1) 1 Chapungu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (0) 0WISDOM Mutasa (pictured) might have struggled to impose himself on the match, but he stepped up when it mattered most to decide a tight contest against a plucky Chapungu side in a Castle Lager Premier League football tie at Rufaro Stadium yesterday. BY MUNYARADZI MADZOKEREIt was an emotional victory for the Glamour Boys, who lost eight supporters in a road accident in the reverse fixture on their way to Gweru with the team.Mutasa, who looked anything but match fit during the encounter, latched on to a rebound after Chapungu goalkeeper, Roy Muzingi parried Denver Mukamba s stinging shot back into play.Mutasa s low shot from inside the crowded box found its way into the bottom corner to give the hosts an early lead after 13 minutes. It was his first goal since joining DeMbare from ZPC Kariba.The win lifted Dynamos to fourth position, with 35 points, nine adrift of leaders FC Platinum.Dynamos coach, Lloyd Mutasa said the victory was a reward for their departed supporters. We told the youngsters that this is the same match where we lost our beloved fans and we should try and reward them by a victory. And if you could see that time we were not doing very well before that game and we are saying this will probably be a turning point again for us, as we prepare for Highlanders, he said.The Dynamos gaffer also praised his son, Wisdom for scoring what turned out to be the winning goal. Wisdom normally gets into those scoring positions and that s the reason he is part of us, and today he did just that and I am happy for him. I think the destiny (of the league championship) is not in our hands, but as Dynamos, we would want to be the best team from the 11 matches, starting from the Harare City game and we want to see where that would lead us to, Mutasa said.Chapungu coach, John Nyikadzino had to endure the agony of watching his team play well, miss a penalty and leave the capital empty handed.Dynamos defender, Marshall Machazane was adjudged to have illegally brought down ageless striker, Phillip Marufu in the box and referee Nomore Musundire pointed to the spot.Team captain, Tafadzwa Mombeshora accepted responsibility, but lacked the composure before a huge crowd at Rufaro, failing to beat goalkeeper Ashley Reyners from the resultant spot kick.Nyikadzino concluded that a lucky team had won the open encounter. That s how cruel football is, because, basically, I can say we lost to a lucky side today. We got a lot of chances, including a penalty that we failed to utilise. It s 1-0 in favour of Dynamos, but overall, we played better than them, but at the end of the day, what counts is the numbers, he said.Teams Dynamos: A Reyners, D Mukandi, O Mushure, M Machazane S Alimenda, M Mambare, T Sadiki (V Ndaba 72&#8242;) W Mutasa (B Amidu 55&#8242;), D Mukamba (R Mutuma 68&#8242;), J MuzokombaChapungu: R Muzingi, C Mativenga, H Mugoniwa (C Kwaramba 45&#8242;), B Mbavarira, B Zabula, T Mombeshura, C Kapupurika, F Bushiri (G Phiri 19&#8242;), P Marufu, A Marime (P Khumbula 58&#8242;)