FORMER Highlanders football club skipper, Dazzy Kapenya, has blamed match officials for the violence that has often engulfed the Highlanders versus Dynamos clashes. BY FORTUNE MBELEWalker Texas Ranger, as he was affectionately known during his days at Bosso, said match officials biased officiating was the main cause for the mayhem that regularly breaks out when the two teams meet.Ahead of the two teams clash at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday, in the peak of the weekend fixture list, the 2002 Soccer Star of the Year award winner has implored match officials to be impartial, saying their actions usually foment violence. We should have match-officials that are strict, have control and a grip on the match. In most of the games between Highlanders and Dynamos, it s the match officials who are responsible for the violence, Kapenya, who has called for self-restraint from supporters of both teams, said. There should be no favouritism or biased officiating. We just want to watch a fair game. The match must be decided by the players and not the match officials. The build-up to the match has also seen supporters from the two teams preaching peace.Taking the lead in that is Dynamos popular supporter, Alvin Aluvha Zhakata, who posted a video on Facebook of himself singing and dancing with Highlanders supporters in the Soweto End the bay that houses hardcore Bosso supporters during last year s league match between the two sides . We are opponents, not enemies, Zhakata captioned his video.Kapenya has warned his former team to be wary of a Dynamos side, who would be out to avenge the 2-0 defeat in the reverse fixture. However, he is predicting a draw. It is going to be a very tough match and I think it can go either way. The team that will convert their chances will win at the end of the day, but I am convinced it will be a draw. In the past six to eight games, both sides have not been that impressive, but every time these two teams meet, they always rise up to people s expectations, so people should expect a good match. There is a lot to play for despite the two sides standing on the log-table. It s a battle for supremacy in the country s football. Highlanders won in Harare, but Dynamos always play well at Barbourfields, Kapenya said.Highlanders lost Bruce Kangwa and Knox Mutizwa in mid-season, key players instrumental in Bosso s victory over Dynamos on May 28. Kangwa, who has left for Tanzania and Prince Dube, scored the two goals, to break their team s jinx against Dynamos, which had stretched for 10 years. Kapenya wants those left behind to step up and match their adversaries, who, according to the former defender, have an ace in the returning Denver Mukamba. During our times, the tension and euphoria of the game would start at the beginning of the week and you did not need anyone to motivate you for the game against Dynamos. It was self-motivating. It was up to you to prove what kind of a player you were by playing in front of the biggest crowds in Zimbabwe. A player, who could handle the pressure of the Dynamos matches, would definitely make it to the national team. But times have changed and the game has changed. Highlanders lost key players and the youngsters in the squad will have to prove themselves, while Dynamos have boosted their squad by bringing in Denver Mukamba. His experience will definitely be key in this match, he said.Only three points separate the two teams on the log standings, with Highlanders better positioned on third position with 38 points, while Dynamos are fifth.