THE Zimbabwe Rugby Union (ZRU) director of rugby, Bright Chivandire, has resigned. It was not clear yesterday why Chivandire decided to leave office, but a statement from ZRU confirmed he had severed ties with the union. BY SPORTS REPORTER The ZRU wishes to advise that we have accepted the resignation of Bright Chivandire, director of rugby, read the statement. Bright has made an enormous contribution to the game over many years, and more, particularly, over the last 22 months as director of rugby. His passion, commitment and dedication to his roles have been immense. We are grateful to him for his leadership and involvement at all levels, both as a coach and a director. Bright will remain in office as his position and the high performance programme transitions to a new phase; details of which will be advised in due course. We wish him well and every success in the future, where we are certain he will continue to find a way to serve the game he loves. Chivandire was appointed on November 1, 2014, replacing Liam Middleton.His role included establishing and maintaining a national coaching philosophy and he was accountable to the ZRU executive for the playing structure of the game nationally.He was also tasked with overseeing coach education, up skilling programmes for the entire country, national community development programmes and setting out a clear strategy for the development of Zimbabwe rugby s high performance programme among other responsibilities.Meanwhile, ZRU is launching a pilot project for rugby development at grassroots level that will see over 2 000 teachers throughout the country undergoing coaching courses to broaden the talent base.Addressing journalists in Bulawayo, ZRU president, Nyararai Sibanda said the union s ambition is to send more teams to the annual Coca-Cola Craven Week festival in South Africa. We have noticed that it is all up to us to ensure that we feed and grow our base. As we go forward, there will be deliberate plans that will include teacher education of qualified coaches and trainer coaches, so that our funnel is full from the onset and we have so much choice for all our national teams. This is going to be run in conjunction with the sport and primary and secondary education ministries. The preparations are at an advanced stage. The syllabus has been shared and all the logistics put in place to ensure that at least we have over 2 000 teachers trained by year end, he said.Sibanda said they hope to achieve that with the help of Old Mutual Zimbabwe, their main partner, and an International Rugby Board grant that is channelled to ZRU. We have partnerships with Old Mutual, who have come in to ensure that all our age-grade ambitions to participate, particularly in the Craven Week and development, are seen through. They have provided us a budget and we are running in all the parts of the country and ensuring that we realise value or we glean value from the resources they have provided. We want to embrace and assure them that we will put that resource to best use and periodically update them on developments and things that we are doing. They are happy with the way we are doing things. As we go forward, we have had to share with them our ambitions for growth and ensuring that our teams perform better and that we actually put more teams in the Craven Week in South Africa, he said.