THREE coaches from South Africa and one from New Zealand have shown interest in taking over as Sables coach following the resignation of Cyprian Mandenge last week. BY FORTUNE MBELEMandenge left his position together with manager Sebastian Garikai following a string of poor results.Zimbabwe Rugby Union vice-president Tapiwa Mangezi told journalists at a press briefing in Bulawayo that coaches from the Western Province, Sharks and Gauteng and one from New Zealand were eyeing the top job at Sables and by Friday, the union would be finalising on the prospective candidates. We implemented a programme where our coaches were put in a position to explain themselves and decide if they were willing to carry on in those positions. There have been some resignations. After the resignations that have come through, we are now in the process of collecting CVs, looking at the coaches we have within the country, and probably by September 9, we would have completed our evaluation of the Sables technical side. There will be a technical side that will be put in place. In terms of coaching, the review for the Sables team and the process and in the interviews, we are going to do, we have four applications from outside the country. When those applications come through, we will reply to everyone and we will know what to do from there, he said.Mangezi said the union will address the issue of the Cheetahs technical staff, which is currently led by an interim group.At the press conference, ZRU president, Nyarai Sibanda said there has been a lot of speculative and misinformed media coverage on Mandenge and Garikai s resignations and the union was out to clear the air.He said before the resignations, reviews had been held, as the results were not coming and more structural changes were looming in Zimbabwe rugby. We want to collectively account and see where we could have done better. The evaluation meant reviewing and engaging and disengaging. This was a mutual experience where results particularly spoke largely, loudly and for everyone to hear and nothing personal or punitive meant to stop anyone s career or embarrass anyone. It was purely a results-based assessment. As we come out of that we find ourselves with an exodus and obviously that is going to happen because this exodus is created by the discomfort of accountability, Sibanda said.Zimbabwe lost 80-6 against Namibia last year before their trip to Hong Kong, where they also recorded defeats against the hosts, Russia and Portugal.This year, they lost 61-15 against Kenya before the 34-27 loss to Uganda, which sealed the coaches fate in matches played at the Police Grounds in Harare.Another position that has been left vacant is that of director of rugby, previously held by Brighton Chivandire, who also quit last week.