Cologne police have increased security measures for New Year's celebrations after last year's sexual assaults. Authorities have also taken additional precautions in the wake of last week's terror attack in Berlin. (28.12.2016) The city of Cologne has announced far-reaching security measures to make sure that New Year's Eve 2016 is radically different from last year, which was marked by mass sex assaults and thefts. (12.12.2016) Police in Cologne will hold a series of press conferences to present new technologies and strategies meant to prevent further sex mob attacks in public places following last year's mass-scale New Year's Eve assaults. (11.12.2016) The right-wing extremist National Party of Germany (NPD) and the populist, anti-migration&nbsp;Alternative for Germany (AfD) will not be allowed to hold rallies in Cologne on New Year's Eve, police said Thursday.Cologne Police Chief J rgen Mathies said he "didn't want to inhibit political expression" with the two bans, but that he was "solely concerned" with the security of participants and bystanders.Police had already announced their ban on the NPD's demonstration on Tuesday. The far-right party then took their case to Cologne's administrative court, which upheld the police chief's decision.On Thursday, the court ruled the NPD's freedom of assembly would have to be diminished "in this particular case" out of concern for public safety.Police argued that they did not have enough security personnel to monitor the New Year's Eve crowds and protect the NPD protesters.Several groups had said they would hold counter-demonstrations, should the NPD be allowed to hold their rally.Police also cited the special security situation as a reason for denying the AfD's 10 to 15-member planned protest. It was not immediately clear if the AfD would also take their case to court or if the NPD would appeal the ban to the higher administrative court.An anti-racism organization,&nbsp;"K ln gegen Rechts," has accused the NPD of attempting to exploit the presence of domestic and international media and instrumentalizing&nbsp;the sexual assaults that took place last New Year's Eve. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2UyhXHeightened securityIn light of the spate of sexual assaults that took place last New Year's Eve&nbsp;in Cologne and the truck attack at a Berlin Christmas market last week, police in Cologne have&nbsp;massively increased security measures for this year.Around 1,500 police officers will be deployed and concrete barriers will be set up, Mathies said Wednesday.Last year, hundreds of women were sexually harassed, assaulted and robbed by men who witnesses described as being of&nbsp;Middle Eastern or North African descent. The assaults sparked public outrage, with many criticizing Cologne police for being unprepared and slow to respond. The assaults also stoked anti-migrant sentiment, particularly within far-right parties.rs/cmk&nbsp;(AFP, dpa)It didn't just traumatize the women affected - it shocked the country. Hundreds of women were sexually assaulted and robbed on New Year's Eve in Cologne. Because most of the alleged perpetrators were of Northern African descent, the events kicked of a heated debate over Germany's migration policy. Before the start of the European Handball Cup, few would have placed their bets on the Germans. But the team was guided to a surprise win by their Islandic trainer, Dagur Sigurdsson, an expert tactician and motivator. Under his guidance, the young players excelled - especially goalkeeper Andreas Wolff, whose acrobatic stunts kept viewers on the edge of their seats.In a tragic accident, two local trains collided at full force in the small Bavarian town Bad Aibling on February 2, killing twelve people and injuring ninety more. The cause of the accident: the 40-year-old train dispatcher sent both trains the "go ahead" signal, too busy killing demons in the fantasy role-playing game "Dungeon Hunter 5" on his phone to pay full attention to his job.In the Baden-W rttemberg election on March 14, the Greens won over 30 percent of the vote. For the first time, the party became the largest faction in a state parliament. Winfried Kretschmann, who in 2011 became the first Green state premier in Germany, remained in power, but changed his coalition partner from the center-left SPD to center-right CDU.Rupert Neudeck saved thousands of lives in the late 1970s when he took Vietnamese refugees aboard his ship "Cap Anamur" and brought them to Germany. Neudeck, who himself had to flee his home as a child during World War II, was often the first to help those in desperate need, long before the slow political bureaucracy could act. He died on May 31.Germany only made it to the semi-final in Euro 2016, disappointing fans' high hopes for the world champions. But the team managed to accomplish one thing almost as satisfying as a title: they finally beat Italy. The Germans beat their nemesis 6:5 in a penalty shoot-out in the quarter final. Defender Jonas Hector delivered the fatal blow against keeper Luigi Buffon."Stop playing video games, go play outside." Thanks to Pok mon Go, this go-to parenting phrase might now be a thing of the past. Youngsters and adults alike went crazy this year, hunting fantasy creatures on their smartphones or tablets. With the help of GPS and camera, the game turned the real world into a virtual playground to "catch them all," or to train Pok mon and send them into battle. It had already been clear in 2015 that VW was manipulating its diesel engines. But in May 2016 another classic German brand name came under pressure, when it emerged that Opel had altered its emissions tests on the Zafira. Now many major car manufacturers are facing increased scrutiny and heavy fines, especially in the US. While demonstrating the difference between satire and insult, TV comedian Jan B hmermann read a poem full of insults like "his privates smell like kebap" and "a president with a small dong" about Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on his show in late May. Erdogan couldn't take the joke - he pressed charges against the comedian for "insulting the leader of a foreign nation."Munich July 23: Nine people dead, 16 injured, the killer committed suicide. The second and worst of three attacks in Germany this July. On July 18, a 17-year-old Afghani attacked travelers in a train in Southern Germany with an axe. Four people were injured. On July 24, a 27-year-old Syrian detonated a bomb in a small town in Bavaria. The man dies, 15 people were injured. Angela Merkel made it official in late November: After eleven years as chancellor, she wants to run again in 2017. It won't be easy: The woman once dubbed Germany's "Mommy" ("Mutti") is facing more opposition, not just from the left and the far-right. In her own party, the conservative CDU, the resistance against centrist Merkel is growing.The third time was the charm for Nico Rosberg. The German-Finnish racing driver finally succeeded in joining his father Keke in the ranks of Formula 1 world champions this year. In a move that then surprised many, the 31-year old announced his retirement right after his win. Rosberg decided to forgo millions in sponsoring contracts to have more time for his wife and one-year-old daughter.2016 ended the way it started: in chaos and tragedy. On December 19, twelve people died and almost fifty more were injured when a truck crashed into a Christmas market in central Berlin. The "Islamic State" terrorist group claimed responsibility for the attack.