RB Leipzig 2-0 Hertha Berlin (Werner 40', Orban 61')RB Leipzig returned to the summit of the Bundesliga with a 2-0 win over Hertha Berlin at the Red Bull Arena in front of Red Bull owner Dietrich Mateschitz. Timo Werner ended a dull first 45 minutes with a piece of individual brilliance to find the opener. The 20-year-old danced through the Hertha defense showing great close control, before casually poking home.Chances were restricted by Hertha's stodgy defense, but they were nowhere to be found when Leipzig captain Willi Orban was unmarked and headed home Emil Forsberg's corner. The three points stay with Leipzig, who will now face a colossal showdown with Bayern Munich in the final round of games before the winter break.Mainz 3-1 Hamburg (Latza 35', 56', 66' - Wood 20')Danny Latza ended Hamburg's four-game unbeaten streak with a hat&nbsp;trick of goals from long range. But the game began with Hamburg showing their newfound attacking purpose. Bobby Wood's direct play saw&nbsp;the American fire&nbsp;high into the net from 20 yards to give the visitors the lead. Ten minutes later, Nicolai M ller was denied only by the crossbar as Hamburg threatened to run away with it.But Gisdol hasn't quite managed to cut out the basic mistakes. Douglas Santos failed to clear and the resulting ball landed as far as Danny Latza who scored his first of the season after a long injury lay-off. The second and third, 10 minutes apart at the start of the second half, were carbon copies of the first -&nbsp;the defensive-midfielder striking powerfully from distance into the right-corner of the goal.Latza scored three goals in one day after 33 games without oneWerder Bremen 1-1 K ln (Gnabry 40' - Rudnevs 28')Former Arsenal talent&nbsp;Serge Gnabry remains the main source of Werder Bremen's attack, scoring his sixth of the season to earn an important point against high-flying Cologne.&nbsp;The Billy Goats took the lead when Artjoms Rudnevs pounced on a rebound after a superb through ball from Jonas Hector. But Gnabry's long-range strike, five minutes before the break, pegged Cologne back to level terms. The German picked up the ball in space and shot from 30 yards, but stand-in keeper Thomas Kessler should have saved.Augsburg 1-0 Borussia M nchengladbach (Hinteregger 75')The pressure continues to grow on Borussia M nchengladbach head coach Andre Schubert following another away defeat in the Bundesliga.&nbsp;The Foals, who have won one of their last 17 away games,&nbsp;are now below Augsburg in the table&nbsp;after this weekend's games and languish just six points above the relegation zone. To make matters worse, ex-player Martin Hinteregger was the man to rub salt in the wounds, heading in the winner with 15 minutes to play.Schalke 1-1 Freiburg (Konoplyanka 74' - Niederlechner 64')After two narrow defeats to RB Leipzig and Bayer Leverkusen, Schalke rallied to come from behind and collect a point against Freiburg at the Veltins Arena.&nbsp;Seven of Schalke's starting line-up were players nurtured at the club's outstanding youth academy, but the key player for the Royal Blues was Ukrainian Yevhen Konoplyanka, who was at the heart of the home side's attacking play.Yet Freiburg opened the scoring. Vincenzo Grifo's tidy pass sent Florian Niederlechner through on goal and he finished off confidently. Ten minutes later, Konoplyanka showed smart movement to find space in the box and finish off a cross from Abdul Rahman Baba. Schalke and Freiburg occupy 11th and 10th respectively ahead of their final games of the year.Wolfsburg 1-0 Eintracht Frankfurt (Bruma 33')Wolfsburg couldn't have asked for a better end to the week following the departure of sporting director Klaus Allofs on Monday. Jeffrey Bruma's header from Julian Draxler's corner kick separated the teams as Wolfsburg move three points clear of the drop zone with a 1-0 win over Eintracht Frankfurt. The Dutch defender wrestled with his marker before diverting the ball goalwards.The second half, however, belonged to Frankfurt, who introduced Alexander Meier at the break. But the talisman skied a penalty kick around the hour mark, while referee Felix Brych waved away claims for another spot kick&nbsp;less than a minute later. Mexican Marco Fabian also passed up a stunning chance with two minutes to play.&nbsp;Frankfurt lie in sixth place&nbsp;despite their eight-game unbeaten run coming to an end in Wolfsburg.Relive all the action from Saturday as it happened in our live blog below: