FOR a moment, the green and white heart of Ascot stadium fell and then rose again in a rapturous cheer as Chapungu s second half substitute, striker Patrick Khumbula s blistering header flew by inches over the crossbar to settle somewhere in the wet green grass behind Edmore Sibanda s goal. By John Mokwetsi,Online EditorMinutes, three minutes to be specific after that close shave, ticked away and sometimes appeared to stand still like Miss Havisham s clock but there was no denying Caps United s coach Lloyd Chitembwe his moment of glory, a moment of breathing out and celebrating.Dynamos supporters carrying the sibling rivalry expected of them had looked in awe at Devon Chafa, a player who once donned the famous blue and white jersey pulling the strings like his life was depended on this medal. It was to be his fifth after winning the others with Dynamos in that fairy-tale period under the managerial reins of Kalisto Pasuwa.It left a bitter taste in the mouth for many who saw another former Dynamos player, Simba Nhivi scoring within three minutes of kick off in the 1-0 win that gave Caps United the trophy at the expense of a battling FC Platinum that was winning 3-0 against Tsholotsho about 200 km away from Gweru.That didn t matter. Caps United had not performed a Houdini act. If at all they had been outstanding throughout the season and odds favoured their fortune.There were memorable moments. A moment like when Caps United with five minutes to full time were trailing Dynamos 3-0 at the National Sport Stadium with their supporters resigned to a first defeat at home and a threat to their championship aspirations. After 90 minutes of football the result stood at 3-3 with many of their supporters long gone to leave a few singing.There were moments that were not as inspiring like when Chitembwe had to be content with boisterous supporters who wanted his head for a one all draw against Hwange at Rufaro Stadium.CAPS United had surrendered a first half lead. He looked on as he was being second guessed for relying on goalkeeper Jorum Muchambo whom they thought was responsible for the late goal they conceded. Muchambo was never a favourite after his howler at the Baobab stadium allowed Ngezi Platinum a share of the spoils in the one all draw.But on this day in Gweru, amid showers of rain, the green half of the nation stood with him-defying police to fill up the turf area and to mob their heroes. Chitembwe, who was uncharacteristically calm throughout the season whenever he was on the touchline, smiled and then became modest again as the technical bench surrounded him in salutation for a job well done. It has been 11 years, a supporter thought aloud as if unaware of his surroundings. And here we are. Addressing his players after the game an ecstatic Chitembwe is said to have thanked everyone for making a dream possible. A few tears ran down the cheeks of those who listened as the coach humbly thanked everyone. We were happy and we had worked hard for this day but most of all we had a leader, a player confided.Speaking to the media after the match Chitembwe had made the win not about himself but something only a divine God could deliver: I just want to thank God for this achievement, without Him we could not have achieved this. I am happy for the team. The players gave everything and we are rewarded with the title. I am happy and I just want to enjoy this moment, At the end Chitembwe s ambitions, which are not limited to this day in Gweru, are still in motion for as he takes his troops to play with the best and opulent of African football in the CAF champions league, he can dare to dream again.And perhaps his crowning moment came when the panelists comprising journalists, coaches and team captains from all the 16 premiership PSL clubs decided to award him the best coach of the year accolade.