German officials are searching for a Tunisian man whose ID was found under the driver's seat of the truck used in Monday's attack. The suspect was said to already have been under investigation for a terror plot. (21.12.2016) German rail company Deutsche Bahn has said it will begin outfitting employees with body cameras. The trials are in response to a spike in violence against rail staff, which rose significantly in 2016. (10.07.2016) A video alluding to the Islamic State militia has been found by police on the mobile phone of the bomber in Ansbach, says Bavaria's interior minister. Joachim Herrmann says the Syrian was a rejected asylum-seeker. (25.07.2016) A state interior minister has warned that Germany needs to beef up its security laws following the Berlin terror attack. The cabinet has already passed a proposal to introduce more video surveillance in public areas. (21.12.2016) The ministers approved the bill on Wednesday, backing the initiative by Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere. However, the bill still needs to be confirmed by the federal parliament before going into effect.Chancellor Angela Merkel's spokesman, Steffen&nbsp;Seibert, said surveillance would be especially beefed up in areas including shopping centers, sports centers, car parks, buses and railways. The move could serve as a deterrent for potential attackers, he added.Germany's main political parties have agreed to reform surveillance services months ago, responding to public pressure after sexual assaults in Cologne, a spree killing in Munich, as well as terror attacks aboard a train in W rzburg and a suicide attack on a fair in Ansbach.However, the attack on the Berlin Christmas market has reignited the debate on security in the country. On Wednesday, Berlin state authorities said the suspect for Berlin attacks was monitored for several months during 2016. The surveillance was called off in September.Bodycams to protect policeThe issue of surveillance is particularly sensitive in Germany, with the trauma of the Gestapo and the Stasi still vivid in the country's memory. Both the Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Joachim Gauck were born and raised in East Germany.Germany's data protection law historically values privacy rights, and the latest amendment also places a high worth on the protection of life and health, as well as the safeguarding of personal freedom. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2UedLThe new law also permits police officers to wear body cams, a measure intended to increase security for offices after a rise in violent attacks against them in recent months. Investigators will also be granted more powers to record telephone conversations during pertinent cases.President meets attack victimsWhile the government still looking for ways to deal with the aftermath of the Monday attack, German President Joachim&nbsp;Gauck visited Berlin's Charite hospital to meet with injured victims.Gauck told reporters he spoke with three patients due to operated on Wednesday and commended their "composure.""The people need to sense that they are not alone," he said, while also thanking the doctors and medical staff.The Charite admitted 13 patients after the attack, two of whom died. Medical director Ulrich Frei said that four of the patients being treated are suffering from "severe trauma of the lower extremities and the pelvis." Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2Uhl5dm,dj/rc