Air strikes by Russian warplanes forced "Islamic State" (IS) militants to withdraw from the central Syrian city of Palmyra at dawn on Sunday, shortly after they had re-entered the city following a days-long offensive, according to a Britain-based group monitoring the Syrian conflict."Intense Russian raids since last night forced IS&nbsp;out of Palmyra, hours after the jihadists retook control of the city," said Rami Abdel Rahman from the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which gathers information from a network of activists within the country.Abdel Rahman said many jihadists had been killed in the raids, but could give no precise toll. He said the army had brought reinforcements into the city and that the militants were now fighting in orchards on Palmyra's outskirts.The Russian Defense Ministry said Russian warplanes had conducted 64 air raids during the operation to repel IS, killing more than 300 militants.Later reports by the Observatory however said the militants had regrouped and recaptured the city after the Syrian army withdrew to the south.&nbsp;Another activist group, Palmyra Coordination, said IS had retaken areas on the outskirts and Palmyra castle.The IS-linked Amaq news agency also reported that the jihadists had taken back "full control" of the city.Widespread destructionIn May last year, the extremist Sunni Muslim group captured Palmyra along with other towns in Homs province, and inflicted severe damage on many of its ancient sites, which are part of UNESCO's World Heritage list. IS considers all religious statues and images to be idolatrous and&nbsp;has destroyed huge numbers of ancient monuments both in Syria and Iraq in a campaign to establish a "caliphate" across the Middle East.IS destroyed many historic artefactsHaving been driven out of the city in March of this year, the militants began an offensive to retake Palmyra and nearby towns just days ago. The group re-entered the city on Saturday.For more than a year, Russia has been giving military support&nbsp;from the air&nbsp;to troops loyal to Moscow ally President Bashar al-Assad, as Assad tries to put down a rebellion that began in 2011. Extremist groups such as IS have taken advantage of the instability created by the insurgency to capture territory in Syria.tj/jlw (AFP, Reuters)Have a look on this picture&nbsp;gallery from March 28, a day after Palmyra was first recaptured from ISPalmyra's giant pillars used to be recognized around the world. This long boulevard of antiquity was feared to have been pulverized in deliberate explosions conducted by the so-called "Islamic State" (IS). But recent images show that much of the Great Colonade survived IS and its reign of terror.Syria's antiquities director Maamoun Abdulkarim intends to rebuild Palmyra to the state of its former glory. Ancient sites such as the Temple of Baal Shamin and the Temple of Bel will have to be pieced together like a puzzle after IS had demolished them in 2015. Still, Abdulkarim hopes that with the UN's help, Palmyra will be restored in five years' time.The fact that Palmyra's ancient amphitheater, built around 200 A.D., appears to have survived the brute force of IS' destruction campaign might be among the lesser surprises here. It was here that jihadists held mass executions last year, while also using the stage as their set for their violent propaganda videos. A memorial for these recent events will likely be part of the restoration efforts.Aerial photographs reveal that other parts of the ancient city barely managed to withstand IS' deliberate destruction. The image on the right, taken on March 26, 2016, shows the extent of the damage after IS had blown up the Temple of Bel. On the left, the temple is seen intact before the jihadists' advance toward the UNESCO World Heritage site in May 2015.Palmyra's National Museum also suffered heavy losses under IS rule. Its treasures were looted, some were damaged, and others burned. The building itself lost parts of its roof but appears to have kept its structural integrity.Locals knew they had been liberated when the fortress of Qal'at Ibn Ma'n high on top of a hill in Palmyra was finally recaptured by government forces. The structure is thought to date back only to the 13th to 16th centuries, but prior to the IS occupation, it had always been part of Palmyra's tourist attraction route despite pertaining to more recent history. Author: Sabine Oelze / ss