The Trump transition announced attorney David Freidman's appointment in a statement Thursday, saying his&nbsp;"strong relationships in Israel will form the foundation of his diplomatic mission."President-elect Donald Trump was quoted of saying:&nbsp;"(Friedman) has been a long-time friend and trusted adviser to me. His strong relationships in Israel will form the foundation of his diplomatic mission and be a tremendous asset to our country as we strengthen the ties with our allies and strive for peace in the Middle East."David FriedmanFriedman, who specializes in litigation and bankruptcy law,&nbsp;was a key adviser to the incoming Republican president on US-Israel affairs during the presidential campaign.Where Israel's concerned, he supports settlement building within the Palestinian Territories, a practice repeatedly lamented as a hindrance to the peace process by the UN, the Obama administration and others.Accepting the role, Friedman said he promised to "work tirelessly to strengthen the unbreakable bond between our two countries and advance the cause of peace within the region," adding&nbsp;that he looked forward to "working from the US Embassy in the eternal capital, Jerusalem."Benjamin Netanyahu calls Donald Trump a "true friend of Israel." The country's right sees his win as an opportunity. Politicians across the spectrum have emphasized the unbreakable continuity of US-Israel cooperation. (09.11.2016) Eight months after infuriating Obama with his doomed mission to stop the Iran nuclear deal, this week Benjamin Netanyahu was back in Washington. His mission this time: Make nice, with both the president and his party. (11.11.2015) The clashes continue between Israelis and Palestinians in Jerusalem; an hour away it's business as usual in Tel Aviv. How is it that the Nonstop City enjoys a completely different reality from the burning capital? (11.10.2015) Trump pledges new&nbsp;US embassy in JerusalemTrump has vowed to relocate the US' embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv, the country's business capital, to Jerusalem. While Israel has classed Jerusalem as its capital city since 1950, it has not been formally recognized as such by the international community, who continue maintain their embassies in Tel Aviv. Israel captured Arab East Jerusalem during the six-day war of 1967 and has claimed it ever since. That land grab has however not been recognized by the international community including -&nbsp;until now at least -&nbsp;the US.In the event of a two-state solution, Palestinian authorities have made clear that they want East Jerusalem to serve as the capital of their own separate state. Trump's decision to move the embassy to Jerusalem is therefore almost certain to provoke objections from the Arab world and Muslims further afield.This week, senior Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway emphasized that moving the embassy to Jerusalem had been a "big priority" for Trump. He&nbsp;has promised to support Israel in other areas, as well. For example, he has promised not pressure Israel hold talks with Palestine.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu welcomed Trump's election in November, calling him a "true friend of Israel."Netanyahu and outgoing US President Barack Obama oftentimes endured a frosty relationship. In recent years, the two&nbsp;clashed over the&nbsp;nuclear deal with Irsael's regional rival,&nbsp;Iran, which was&nbsp;brokered by the US&nbsp;among others. Obama also voiced his displeasure over&nbsp;Israel's expansion of settlements in the West Bank.Trump vowed to tear up the Iran deal during his campaign, though he has since toned down his aggressive&nbsp;rhetoric concerning the landmark nuclear agreement brokered in last year.dm/rc&nbsp;(AP, Reuters)One of the main stumbling blocks of the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians is Israel's settlement policy. Around half a million settlers live in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. The Palestinians are demanding a freeze on new settlements before any further peace talks.A diplomatic solution appears a long way off. Several attempts to broker peace achieved only short-term successes. The US was usually at the forefront of those efforts.Israel had occupied the Palestinian terrorities, such as the town of Hebron, since 1967. Ronald Reagan's proposal in 1982 to grant Palestinians independence in the occupied territories and to put a freeze on further Israeli settlements was rejected by both sides. The Palestinians stuck to their demand of having their own state.In 1993 PLO leader Yasser Arafat and Israeli Prime Minster Yitzhak Rabin signed the Oslo peace accord. As part of Bill Clinton's mediation proposal Israel decides to accept the PLO as the representative of the Palestinians. In return the Palestinians delete the passage from their charter calling for Israel's destruction.A second round of Oslo peace talks takes place in 1995. The interim deal on the status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, also known as Oslo II, grants the Palestinians autonomy over roughly one third of the West Bank.A meeting between Israel's premier Ehud Barak and PLO leader Yasser Arafat in 2000 at Camp David fails to resolve the dispute over the status of Jerusalem despite Bill Clinton's efforts to mediate.George W. Bush invites Israeli premier Ehud Olmert and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas for talks in Annapolis, in an attempt to revive direct peace negotiations. The idea is to pave the way for a two-state solution within a year. However, the initiative soon fizzles out.Since taking power in 2009, US President Barack Obama has been calling on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to freeze further settlements - which in turn has led to frosty ties between the two.Obama's first trip to the Middle East as president was always unlikely to yield any concrete progress. However he used his visit to improve ties - and his image - with Israel. The Palestinians, on the other hand, were all the more disappointed with his about-turn on the settlements issue by calling for peace talks without a settlement freeze. Author: Diana Hodali / rm