US President-elect Donald Trump on Thursday took to his preferred social media platform, Twitter, to lambast American popular culture magazine "Vanity Fair," after one of its reporters penned a&nbsp;critical review of Trump Grill, located in&nbsp;the real-estate magnate's business headquarters in New York City."Has anyone looked at the really poor numbers of Vanity Fair Magazine. Way down, big trouble, dead! Graydon Carter, no talent, will be out," Trump said in a tweet, referring to the magazine's editor.The tweet sent the magazine's subscriptions into a record-breaking surge, with&nbsp;approximately 13,000 new subscriptions bought in a 24-hour period, said a spokesperson for Conde Nast, the magazine's publisher."This was the highest number of subscriptions sold in a single day ever at Conde Nast," the spokesperson said, adding that the "Vanity Fair" review of the restaurant in Trump Tower had&nbsp;received 1 million unique views since the tweet.The CIA and FBI have concluded that Russia interfered in the US presidential election in support of Donald Trump. The White House has agreed with the findings. In the article, Tina Nguyen, the magazine's politics reporter, described a recent lunch at the bistro as "rich-man slop" under the headline "Trump Grill could be the worst restaurant in America."Since Trump's tweet, the magazine's website banner reads: "The magazine Trump doesn't want you to read."'Short-fingered vulgarian'In November 2015, "Vanity Fair" editor Graydon Carter detailed a&nbsp;25-year-long feud with Trump, which he said began when he described the president-elect in the 1980s as a "short-fingered vulgarian." He noted that Trump still sent&nbsp;him&nbsp;photos of himself."On all of them, he has circled his hand in gold Sharpie in a valiant effort to highlight the length of his fingers," Carter said.The "New York Times"&nbsp;announced a similar surge in subscriptions following Trump's fiendish remarks about&nbsp;the American newspaper, adding more than 200,000 subscribers since September.Surrounded by the ones he loves, Donald Trump with his wife, Melania, daughters Ivanka and Tiffany, his sons Eric and Donald, Jr., and grandchildren Kai and Donald John III. His three eldest children are senior vice presidents in the Trump organization.This picture from 1984 shows Trump opening Harrah's at Trump Plaza, a casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey. It's one of the investments that helped turn Trump, already a millionaire thanks to cash from his father, into a billionaire.Trump inherited the money he used to launch his real estate empire from his father, Frederick. He gave his son a million dollars to start and then, upon his death, left Donald and his three siblings $400 million.Donald Trump aggressively invested the money and experienced the market's highs and lows. Long-term success came thanks to Trump Tower in New York City. Trump has said he's worth some $10 billion, but he has not released financial information to prove the claim. Experts estimate he's worth about a third of that.That's what Trump had to say about himself. He studied at the renowned Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and graduated with a bachelor's degree.Before college, Trump was sent to a military academy at the age of 13 to learn discipline. By the time he graduated, he had earned an officer's rank at the academy. During his campaign for president, he said he enjoyed the school's structure and military culture.Despite the military education, Trump did not serve in the Vietnam War. He received four deferments while studying and a fifth for bone spurs in his heels. Trump will be the first US president to enter the White House without having previously served in a public office or the military.In 1977, Trump married Ivana Zelnuickova of what was then Czechoslovakia. The pair had three children together, Donald John, Jr., Ivanka Marie and Eric Fredrick. The marriage, however, was plagued with rumors of extra-material affairs and ended in 1990. Ivana was the one who created Trump's nickname "The Donald."Trump later married his second wife, Marla Maples. Maples gave birth to their daughter Tiffany in 1993.Trump seemed to enjoy being photographed with women other than his wife by his side. He often visited beauty pageants and posed with young models. From 1996 to 2015, he owned part of all the Miss Universe pageants. Trump would later come under fire for an audio recording of him saying his fame allowed him to grope women without fearing consequences. How do you make a quick million? Trump's best-seller "The Art of the Deal," which was part autobiography, part instruction manual for ambitious businessmen, tried to show readers the way. Already well-known, the book solidified Trump's spot in the public spotlight.Like no other, Trump knew how to grab the public's attention, as seen here in a show for "World Wrestling Entertainment." His unique blend of business and entertainment acumen met in the reality TV show "The Apprentice" where candidates were hired and fired. Trump's favorite line from the show: "You're fired!"Though he had previously had very little contact with governing or politics, Trump announced his presidential candidacy on July 16, 2015. He used "Make America Great Again" as a political slogan and during his election campaign insulted immigrants, Muslims, women and everyone running against him.Whether the showman morphs into a statesman will be seen over Trump's four years in the White House. Views are split as he prepares to take office. But if his life so far is anything to go by, there is no telling what will be next. Author: Peter Hille (sms) ls/rc (dpa, AFP)