Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF party's congress has endorsed&nbsp;President Robert Mugabe to be their candidate in the 2018 election when he will be 94.The authoritarian leader, who has been in office for 36 years, was endorse by all party structures, and the announcement was met with resounding applause from the thousands of supporters attending the annual conference in Masvingo, 185 miles (300 km) southeast of the capital, Harare.Attendees broke into a chant, in the Shona language "tongai, tongai baba" meaning "rule, rule father."The congress voiced "its support to the president and first secretary comrade Robert Mugabe as the sole candidate for the forthcoming 2018 elections," said deputy secretary Eunice Sandi Moyo. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1JLwoZimbabwe gained independence from British rule in 1980 and Mugabe has ruled the country ever since. To date&nbsp;he has never named a successor, or even discussed retirement. Indeed, he once joked that he would rule until he turned 100.Internal power&nbsp;struggleWith no clear successor in sight party infighting has broken out on social media in recent weeks, as different factions angle to succeed Mugabe as president.Joshua Sako, a white commercial farmer who has supported ZANU-PF since&nbsp;his youth, told DW that&nbsp;senior party leaders, whose fights have been played out in public, are a disgrace&nbsp;to the party that&nbsp;led Zimbabwe to independence.&nbsp; Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/1K3SR"Some of our seniors seem to&nbsp;be losing track. It is not about individual interests. If you start concentrating on what is important for you as an individual, then you lose focus," said Sako.He said that what most matters are issues of&nbsp;importance&nbsp;for the whole country, as well as&nbsp;the party. "We need to remain focused on what we can&nbsp;achieve together. Outside the party, civic society groups and pro-democracy activists have been mounting pressure on Mugabe to resign. Several demonstrations have been held recently, to protest against the country's economic meltdown and ZANU-PF's leadership."Let us stop fighting each other," Mugabe said, referring to the&nbsp;succession fights that have engulfed his party.bik/jm (AFP, dpa)For a long time she remained in the background. She had two children with President Robert Mugabe while he was still married to his first wife. Grace became first lady after Mugabe became a widower. She is now chairperson of the ruling ZANU-PF's Women's League, where she wields huge influence. Although she denies the accusations, many view her as a possible successor to her 92-year-old husband.Most Nigerians were pleasantly surprised when Aisha Buhari announced she would respect the constitution not to engage in politics. Instead, she would only take part in charitable activities. Upon taking office, her husband President Muhammadu Buhari scrapped the Office of the First Lady saying it was a waste of public funds and incompatible with the constitution.Kenyans love their first lady. The reclusive Margaret Gakuo Kenyatta has drawn much attention with her campaign to reduce maternal and child mortality. The daughter of a Kenyan railway operator father and a German mother, Mrs. Kenyatta is considered modest and restrained. She has been married to President Uhuru Kenyatta since 1991.Ana Paula dos Santos worked as a flight attendant and a model. She met her husband, Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos, while at work on board the Angolan Air Force One. Whereas some praise her for her commitment to women and children's welfare, others criticize her for her expensive lifestyle. Ana Paula is dos Santos' fourth wife and they have three children.Dominique Ouattara has always liked to mingle with the powerful. When she met Ivorian President Allasane Outtara in the late 80s, she had made an international career as a real estate agent. By marrying Ouattara, the business lady added more clout in the country s political sphere. She is devoted to her children s rights foundation.Janet Museveni's 30 years as Uganda s First Lady makes her probably the longest serving first lady in Africa. After the disputed election victory of her husband Yoweri Museveni, she is set to stay "in office" for a while. The mother of four became politically active in her late years. Since 2006, she has been a lawmaker and in June her husband appointed her as education and sports minister.Senegal s first "native" First Lady Marieme Faye Sall (Right) with US First Lady Michelle Obama (Left) is the first "indigenous" first lady of Senegal. All others before her had a French background. She is described as a devoted housewife who hardly interferes in President Macky Sall's work. However, the couple is often criticized for their conservative lifestyle.For many years she was engaged to Congolese President Joseph Kabila. In 2006 she eventually became first lady. Marie Olive Lembe di Sita has two children with her husband. She is believed to have a close relationship with Jaynet Kabila, the twin sister of President Kabila, who is considered his right arm. Thus, the Democratic Republic of Congo has two de facto first ladies.2008 saw a wedding marathon for South Africa's President Jacob Zuma. Within four years, he married three women: Nompumelelo Zuma, Thobeka Zuma and Bongi Ngema-Zuma. The three were in addition to Sizakelle, Zuma's wife of many years. His ex-wife Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma carries his name too. She is the Chairperson of the African Union. Critics say Zuma's extended family costs taxpayers a fortune. Author: Madelaine Meier / cm