One woman - Jessica Leeds, 74, of New York - told 'The New York Times' that Trump had groped her on a flight over 30 years ago.Leeds said Trump grabbed her breasts and tried to put his hand up her skirt. "He was like an octopus," she told the newspaper. "His hands were everywhere." The other woman - Rachel Crooks, of Ohio - said she met Trump at Trump Tower in 2005, aged 22. Crooks says Trump kissed her "directly on the mouth" against her will.Separately, said he kissed her on the mouth after she introduced herself to him in 2005.Meanwhile, "The Palm Beach Post"&nbsp;in Florida reported Wednesday night that Mindy McGillivray, 36, told the newspaper that Trump had groped her at his Mar-a-Lago estate 13 years ago.After tapes released at the weekend in which Trump spoke of "grabbing pussy," the candidate's poll ratings have plunged, with the possibility of more women coming forward before the November 8 poll."This entire article is fiction, and for the New York Times to launch a completely false, coordinated character assassination against Mr. Trump on a topic like this is dangerous," campaign senior communicators advisor Jason Miller said in a statement. "To reach back decades in an attempt to smear Mr. Trump trivializes sexual assault, and it sets a new low for where the media is willing to go in its efforts to determine this election."Trump's Democrat rival Hillary Clinton meanwhile sought to make political mileage out of Trump's falling ratings, asking Republican candidates in tight election races: "Are you with him or not?" With Clinton pulling ahead in the race, Republican candidates for the House and Senate are caught, either to revoke support for their party's nominee, and risk losing his voters and losing their races or standing by him and risking turning off moderate Republicans.The Democrats could win the House and Senate and White House if enough moderate Republicans voters in swing states shift away from Trump.Trump meanwhile kept up his denunciations of Clinton at a rally in Florida. It's not enough for voters to elect him instead of her, he declared, "She has got to go to jail."jbh/rc (AFP, AP, Reuters)The site of the new Trump International Hotel in Washington, DC is known as the Old Post Office and Clock Tower. The historic landmark on Pennsylvania Avenue was built in 1899 and stands near the halfway point between the White House and the Capitol.Piercing through the San Francisco fog, this brownish office tower is of one of the city's well-known buildings. Situated at 555 California Street and built in 1969, the high-rise used to house the headquarters of the Bank of America. It was the tallest building on the West Coast until the Transamerica Pyramid was completed in 1972.Trump National Golf Club Los Angeles is situated on the Pacific coast in Rancho Palos Verdes, just a 30 minute drive from downtown LA. It is not only used for golfing but also as a film and photo location for movies and commercials."It's tangible, it's solid, it's beautiful. It's artistic, from my standpoint, and I just love real estate," Donald Trump wrote in one of his posts on Twitter. But his business empire contains more than luxury hotels, golf resorts and high-rise office buildings.Trump's merchandise includes fragrances like Empire; a scent "for the confident man determined to make his mark with passion, perseverance and drive." Success by Trump, on the other hand, promises to be an inspiring blend of fresh juniper and iced red currant, "brushed with hints of coriander." Other aromas include "a masculine combination of rich vetiver, tonka bean, birchwood and musk."Trump Models, "the brainstorm and vision of owner, Donald Trump," is based in New York City. One of the agency's models is Hong Kong-born Mia Kang. This year, the Korean-British model has been voted winner of Sports Illustrated s 2016 global model search contest.Trump inaugurated the Trump Taj Mahal casino and hotel complex on the famous Boardwalk in Atlantic City in 1990. But after years of ownership changes, it closed on Oct. 10.According to the New York Times, Trump's real estate empire in the US is "a maze of debts and opaque ties" - his companies having "at least $650 million in debt." However, Trump's latest hotel development in the Old Post Office Tower is the third-tallest building in the US capital, and likely a prime location for his inauguration party. Author: Thomas Kohlmann