Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump called for his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton to take a drug test before their third televised presidential debate next week. Trump said that after the last debate Clinton had not been well enough to be able to properly make her way back to her car, while allegedly being "all pumped up" on drugs during the televised standoff earlier that evening. He offered no evidence to support his claim."I don't know what's going on with her," Trump said about Clinton at a rally in New Hampshire."I think we should take a drug test prior to the debate. Why don't we do that?" he added."Athletes, they make them take a drug test. I think we should take a drug test prior to the debate. Why don't we do that?"Trump has repeatedly raised questions about Clinton's health, challenging her stamina and bringing up to her recent bout of pneumonia as well as a concussion she had suffered while serving as secretary of state.Trump and Clinton will square off in their final televised debate on Wednesday evening ahead of November 8 elections. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2RDa8Sexual assault allegations against TrumpDonald Trump has begun to flounder in opinion polls following the release of a&nbsp;2005 video tape showing him talking offensively about groping women. Nine women have come forward since saying that he had sexually assaulted them. Trump has categorically&nbsp;denied the charges.Trump has also alleged in recent days that Clinton and the media had colluded on false sexual assault charges and that therefore the election was rigged against him. First Lady Michelle Obama has also commented on the claims against Trump, saying she felt that&nbsp;"no woman deserves to be treated this way, none of us deserves this kind of an abuse."The Clinton campaign meanwhile called Trump's attempts to paint the election as unfair as "shameful attempts to undermine an election weeks before it happens.""Participation in the system - and particularly voting - should be encouraged, not dismissed or undermined because a candidate is afraid he's going to lose," campaign manager Robby Mook said.ss/bw&nbsp;(AP, dpa)&nbsp;