Thailand's palace announced the death of King Bhumibol Adulyadej on Thursday evening in a statement."His Majesty has passed away at Siriraj Hospital peacefully," the palace said, without giving a cause of death, adding that he died at 15:52 local time (0852 UTC/GMT).The 64-year-old Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn will be the new monarch, the prime minister said in a televised address. Prayuth Chan-ocha&nbsp;said the king had designated his son&nbsp;as his successor in 1972.&nbsp;"We the government must proceed with the next steps in accordance&nbsp;with the law," he said, adding that Thailand would hold a one-year mourning period and that all entertainment&nbsp;would be "toned down" for a month.Ill and confined to hospital for much of the past two years, the king's&nbsp;condition had deteriorated notably in the past week. Thailand's palace had issued two reports on his worsening condition on Sunday and Wednesday, prompting hundreds to keep vigil outside Bangkok's Siriraj&nbsp;hospital, many wearing pink and yellow shirts in his honor.&nbsp;Thailand's society has always been deeply divided. The government in Bangkok changes under the pressure of a popular uprising or a military coup every few years. But the one thing that united the warring factions was their reverence for the king.For a vast number of Thais, Bhumibol Adulyadej was a saint who had acted as the guarantor of the country's unity and integrity. He was the head of state as well as the highest Buddhist authority in the country. Born on December 5, 1927, King Bhumibol's death was announced on Thursday.The world's longest-serving monarch&nbsp;was a central element of the Thai identity, and his absence will leave a major social vacuum in its wake.Closer to Europe than to ThailandThe power of the Thai royal dynasty was already on the wane when the 18-year-old&nbsp;Bhumibol ascended the throne in 1946&nbsp;as Rama IX.His elder brother Ananda had been found dead in his bedroom with a bullet in his head - an incident that remains a mystery to this day.Bhumibol had spent most of his youth in Switzerland, where he learned&nbsp;French, Latin and German. He used to love skiing and acquired a lifelong love of fast cars and American music. At the beginning of his reign, Europe was more familiar to Bhumibol than his native country.King Bhumibol had reigned in Thailand since 1946Steep ascentDespite all handicaps, Bhumibol - with the aid of his court and his followers - managed to transform himself into the highest authority in Thailand.A coup by government officials aided by members of the armed forces had replaced absolute monarchy with a constitutional one 14 years before he became king.&nbsp;As a constitutional monarch, he could not rely on political power so he reverted rather to the century-old tradition of the Dharmaraja, or "Good Ruler."A Dharmaraja is selfless in his service to his people, whom he leads and guides according to the Buddhist ethical code. His "power" depends on his charisma and his moral authority.Bhumibol's strategy was extremely successful - to this day, the three pillars of Thai society are said to be the nation, its religion and the king. The king's utterances often carried more weight than&nbsp;the law. One word from Bhumibol could nip the career of an up-and-coming politician in the bud.Bhumibol has been known to influence the country's politics more than once: such as in 1992, when he forced a reconciliation between the embattled prime minister and his rival after the conflict had already cost the lives of hundreds of protesters. It was the last time that the monarch would interfere&nbsp;directly in Thai politics - henceforth preferring to play his role indirectly, from behind the scenes.Thais had been praying for the king's recoveryThe king's 'image'The king had his allies: mainly in the form of the princes of the royal family and the members of the royal council - nominated by the king himself - not to forget the monarch's very good relations with the military leadership.A great deal of effort went into projecting the right image of the king in front of the Thai public. The image of the Dharmaraja was repeated ad infinitum in classrooms and school history books. In the early decades of his regency, there was no picture or photograph of the king on which he was not smiling, since his earnestness and dedication had to be emphasized. Apart from that, the palace presented Bhumibol as a master, whether in engineering, or in jazz music, sailing or painting.The health of Thailand's longest reigning monarch, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, has seriously deteriorated, the palace says. The 88-year-old has been receiving haemodialysis treatment and is now reportedly on a ventilator. (10.10.2016) Thailand is marking the 70th anniversary of the reign of King Bhumibol Adulyadej, the world's longest-reigning living monarch. The 88-year-old is widely seen a unifying force in a nation divided along political lines. (09.06.2016) Six weeks since Thailand voted in favor of a new constitution that gives the country's military more powers, Thais remain unsure about their political future. Ate Hoekstra reports from Bangkok. (22.09.2016) A draconian lese majeste&nbsp;law enhanced the magical aura of the king by forbidding every form of criticism of the king or his family, however mild.&nbsp;But he was genuinely popular. The image most Thais carried in their hearts was&nbsp;the selfless king whose actions were always in the interest and for the welfare of his people.The palace also dominated the economy. The so-called Crown Property Bureau (CPB) enabled the palace to bring key industries such as the cement industry under its control. The CPB has managed royal properties with such success that the Thai royal family counts among the richest in the world.The rewards of divisionCriticism was leveled against Bhumibol and the royal family that the crown performed only symbolic service for the unity of the country. The more profound dislocations within Thai society result from the unhealthy mixture of institutions with democratic legitimacy only in part, combined with feudal structures, as well as the army with its repeated encroachments into domestic politics.Critics say the king took advantage of these divisions, instead of taking a stand against them - mainly to preserve his own power. Bhumibol's biographer Paul M. Handley believes that the king did not really trust western-style democracy, but believed in the unifying and healing power of a Dharmaraja instead.And now that King Bhumibol, the Dharmaraja, is no more, nobody remains who can take up the burden after him. The 62-year-old Vajiralongkorn does not have the same standing as his father among the people. Bhumibol leaves behind a deeply divided nation whose simmering conflicts he could cover but not really solve.At the age of 88, King Bhumibol died at the Siriraj hospital in Thailand's capital Bangkok, the royal palace said in a statement. No other Thai monarch had reigned as long. This June, Thais had celebrated his 70th jubilee. Bhumibol spent much of his time over the past few years in hospital with various health problems.Until the very end, the Thai people hoped that the doctors would once again be able to save and extend the life of the world's longest-reigning living monarch. But the aged king had suffered from acute pneumonia, in addition to a string of major health issues such as renal failure.Born on December 5, 1927, in the US, Bhumibol spent much of his childhood and youth in Switzerland. Even after his coronation, he and his wife Sirikit remained frequent travelers and toured the world. The couple had four children: three daughters and one son. The king was widely revered in the country until his death. Bhumibol ascended to the Thai throne in 1946, when he was just 18-years old. The royal portrait is seen not only on the country's bank notes and stamps, but also in people's houses, even if it's not mandated by the state.Supported by his popularity among the people and protected by a rigid "l se majest " law - which makes criticism of the monarchy punishable by up to 15 years in prison - Bhumibol repeatedly pursued his interests, while contributing much to the cohesion of Thailand's divided society. To that end, he relied on a well-entrenched royalist network within the political, business and military classes.In his private life, Bhumibol's hobbies included music and photography. The camera was one of the monarch's loyal companions. He also worked as a jazz musician and composed his own tunes. He once even played with jazz legend Benny Goodman.Although Thailand is officially a constitutional monarchy, Bhumibol was more than a symbolic figure. He shaped the political, economic and social destinies of the country for decades.Despite the political turmoil that shook Thailand during his reign, with a total of 17 coups taking place, Bhumibol was seen as a unifying figure in the Southeast Asian country. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha (center of photo) is seen commemorating the 70th anniversary of the king's reign in June this year. The royal succession is an extremely sensitive topic in Thailand. Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn, the king's 64-year-old son, is the heir apparent, but he has not achieved the same level of devotion that his father enjoyed. That's why it's rumored that some in Thailand favor the crown prince's more popular sister, Princess Maha Chakri Sirindorn (left), to take the throne. Author: Esther Felden