Edward Snowden has said British spies can hack into mobile phones using text messages. The whistleblower also said he has offered to serve prison time in the US if the country were to let him return from exile in Russia. (06.10.2015) Germany's intelligence agencies are planning a massive increase in their budgets next year, according to a new report. The BND is hoping the cash injection will help it become more independent from the NSA. (08.09.2016) A US contractor has been arrested for allegedly taking highly classified documents from a government agency. The information may include top secret codes on how to hack foreign governments, according to a media report. (05.10.2016) The FBI acknowledged Wednesday it had arrested a National Security Agency contractor on charges of&nbsp;stealing highly classified information&nbsp;and is investigating possible links to a recent leak of secret hacking tools used to break into the computers of adversaries.The Maryland home of 51-year-old Harold Thomas Martin III (pictured) was raided by FBI agents last month after he allegedly admitted to having taken government secrets, authorities said."Martin at first denied, and later when confronted with specific documents, admitted he took documents and digital files from his work assignment to his residence and vehicle that he knew were classified," the Department of Justice affidavit alleges. "Martin stated that he knew what he&nbsp;had done was wrong and that he should not have done it because he knew it was unauthorized."The documents do not detail the classified information that the agency says it&nbsp;seized, but the move does correspond to a cyberleak of purported malicious hacking tools used by the NSA to tamper with firewalls, the electronic defenses protecting computer networks, which was pulled off by a group calling itself the "Shadow Brokers."The complaint does not reference that group or allege a link to Martin, and a defense attorney said Martin never intended to betray his country. But the disclosures were the most significant leak since the disclosures made by NSA contractor-turned-fugitive Edward Snowden in 2013 .NSA General Counsel Glenn Gerstell told the Reuters news agency that the NSA was still assessing damage from the data theft, but said: "I don't think this is a Snowden-type situation."&nbsp;Snowden, who has been granted asylum in Russia, said he deliberately exposed the scope of US government surveillance to force changes.&nbsp;The leaks and subsequent arrest are another embarrassment for the US intelligence community.FBI agents raid suburban homeNeighbors described hearing police throw a flash grenade into the house of security contractor Harold Thomas Martin III in Glen Burnie, Maryland, during the August 27 raid. Martin has been in federal custody since. White House spokesman Josh Earnest said President Barack Obama takes the situation "quite seriously," adding that "it is a good reminder for all of us with security clearances about how important it is for us to protect sensitive national security information."US officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, told news agencies that Martin&nbsp;worked for Booz Allen Hamilton, the consulting firm that had employed Snowden when he revealed the vast collection of metadata by the NSA in 2013.Allegations about a second insider leaking top-secret NSA information could further set back the Obama administration's efforts to recover from Snowden's damaging disclosures about&nbsp; the US government's surveillance and cyberspying activities.Martin,&nbsp;who has been detained since his August 27 arrest,&nbsp;faces up to 10 years in prison if convicted on the most serious charges.jar/kl (AP, Reuters)In his new film "Snowden," Oliver Stone makes a clear effort to remain unbiased. Edward Snowden, played by Joseph Gordon-Levitt, is anything other than a hero with a goal. On the contrary, Stone presents the future whistleblower as an ambitious IT expert who wants to climb the career ladder at the NSA.American director Oliver Stone turned 70 on September 15, a few days after the film's official premiere at the Toronto Film Festival. In the US, "Snowden" opened in cinemas on September 16. Early on, Snowden wanted to serve his country as a soldier in Iraq. During his military training, he broke both legs. It was due to this accident that the young man came into contact with the NSA and the CIA, where he quickly got attention for his strong IT talent.Snowden's boss at the CIA, Corbin O'Brian (played in the film by Welsh actor Rhys Ifans) becomes a big fan of the young man's work. He takes Snowden under his wing.Gradually, Snowden begins to understand what his work at the intelligence agencies is all about: total surveillance both abroad and at home. Many computer nerds work for the CIA and the NSA. Snowden looks over their shoulders and comes to the realization that privacy has lost its sanctity.Oliver Stone's "Snowden" shows how the whistleblower evolved from being an ambitious worker to a critic of the system. The film is full of exciting moments and dense scenes. Particularly memorable is the scene in which Snowden gathers top-secret data from a CIA building and smuggles it out - in a Rubik's cube.Stone shows Snowden's escape from the system as he flees to Asia and begins to collaborate with the journalists to whom he will ultimately release numerous secret documents. Here, Snowden is pictured handing over information to "The Guardian" journalist Ewen MacAskill, played by Tom Wilkinson.With his rousing political thriller, Oliver Stone manages to offer a very human portrayal of the whistleblower - not least due to the convincing performance of actor Joseph Gordon-Levitt. He is depicted as a young man who has a girlfriend and is caught between working for the good of his society and his own interests. Author: Jochen K rten / kbm