LUPANE State University (LSU) is facing numerous challenges in moving its operations from its rented premises in Bulawayo to its campus in the Matabeleland North capital. BY KHANYILE MLOTSHWA/LUYANDUHLOBO MAKWATISpeaking at the university s seventh graduation ceremony on Friday, vice-chancellor, Pardon Kuipa said to date, 145 students and 95 staff members have been moved to Lupane despite the challenges We have moved the agriculture, geography and population departments, including teaching and support staff,&#8221; he said. We are, however, outsourcing food and other service, as our kitchen is not yet complete. It is about 80% complete. We have also asked our staff to share hostels with students. President Robert Mugabe capped 642 graduands at the institution.Chief Mathema of Matabeleland South graduated with a Bachelor of Science honours degree in development studies.Among the graduands, 20 received masters degrees in development studies, while 60% were females.Kuipa said the government freeze on recruitment was hampering efforts to grow the university s academic project. In 2016, we launched our 2016-2020 strategic plan informed by ZimAsset (government s economic blueprint) and the President s 10-point plan, he said. We want to raise our profile in research and teaching. We want to raise the quality of our publications and scholarship. Our degree programmes are unique and we want to build on that and come up with more cutting edge degrees. The government recruitment policy has made it impossible to introduce new programmes and research. We want to ask the government to waiver that (freeze) policy for LSU to introduce new programmes. Kuipa said the university was involved in mobilising resources to build the new campus. We have so far procured 600 computers, reducing the computer to student ratio to 1:5, he said. We are partnering Plan International in conducting a study of the Khoisan in Matabeleland North to understand how they live. I want to challenge the graduands to go out and create employment for those who are less fortunate, he said.