The proposal for a&nbsp;whale sanctuary in the South Atlantic, which was presented&nbsp;at the&nbsp;65th meeting of the International Whaling Commission&nbsp;(IWC) in Slovenia,&nbsp;has failed to reach the required support.The proposal for the sanctuary, which would have covered an area as big as India and Russia together, had been&nbsp;presented by Argentina, Gabon, South Africa, Uruguay and Brazil.Japan, Iceland and Norway were the three main countries that led the effort to block&nbsp;the sanctuary due - environmentalists say - to their commercial interests.&nbsp;These three nations have used legal loopholes and controversial arguments to keep hunting whales, even in existing sanctuaries.Despite the new rejection, environmental campaigners and proposing countries will keep working for a whale preserve at&nbsp;the next IWC&nbsp;meeting in 2018.&nbsp;Meanwhile, the&nbsp;question remains as to how to best protect whales&nbsp;from countries that insist on whaling."We knew that it would probably not get the support - but it is still very disappointing," Astrid Fuchs,&nbsp;head of the Whale and Dolphin Conservation's Stop Whaling Program, told DW from Slovenia. Fin whales provide around 10 metric tons of meat eachAn updated sanctuaryWhile the moratorium for commercial hunting from 1985 largely improved the protection of whales, threats such as by-catch or pollution were left out of the agreement. Whale sanctuaries are intended to fill that gap.While patrolling the South Indian Ocean, Sea Shepherd crew onboard the "Steve Irwin" retrieved an abandoned driftnet that was about 5 kilometers long - twice the maximum legally allowed length. Pulling in the net, they could already feel the weight of death. Once they brought the net on board, they realized the extent of the damage.Retrieved from the illegal driftnet were 321 bodies of dead marine animals; 20 could be returned to the ocean alive. Critically endangered animals were among the 12 species caught. Captain Siddharth Chakravarty believes sharks were the target species, to be sold for their liver and skin. All the rest ended up as bycatch - unwanted animals caught along with the rest.Of the 300-plus animals in the net, 126 were blue sharks. The blue shark is listed as near-threatened by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Around 20 millions are killed each year for their meat, fins, liver and skin - primarily for markets in China and elsewhere in East Asia.From all the marine life recorded in the confiscated driftnet, only 20 specimens were alive and could be put back into the sea. Eighteen blue sharks, one molamola fish and a squid were among the few lucky ones. Two entangled brown seals, however, were part of the unfortunate majority.Such high amount of bycatch is generally bad news - but it's even worse when the bycatch also includes critically endangered species, such as southern bluefin tuna. Found dead in the driftnet were 25 members of this declining population. The species has been intensively fished for its highly prized meat.The look on the face of this crew member holding a dead dolphin leaves no doubt: This represents a tragedy for the Sea Shepherd team. But the retrieved drift net will be used as physical evidence, required to complete a land-based investigation and prosecute the fishermen responsible for this illegal practice.The Steve Irwin is still trying to track the Chinese-flagged fleet that set the illegal net. This aerial photo shows one of the vessels near a long illegal driftnet. According to Captain Siddharth Chakravarty, such driftnets can be up to 20 kilometers long - a legal net is limited to 2.5 kilometers in length.Captain Chakravarty, pictured above, says the fleet responsible for this illegal driftnet has perpetrated at least 11 violations of international law, including: fishing with large-scale pelagic drift nets; unreported shark catch; retaining juvenile sharks onboard; and catching critically endangered southern bluefin tuna as a non-signatory party. This will form the basis of an official accusation. Author: Irene Banos Ruiz The South Atlantic&nbsp;would have been the first IWC sanctuary to include&nbsp;a management plan to enhance non-lethal research methods, and allow for close monitoring of species recovery&nbsp;along with in-depth analysis of current and potential threats."Whales are a very important part of oceans'&nbsp;sustainability," said Hermano Telles Ribeiro, Brazilian commissioner to the IWC. "So we are protecting them - but also looking at the sustainability of the whole chain of fish, plankton, et cetera," Telles told DW from the IWC meeting in Slovenia.The new sanctuary would focus on reducing accidental catch of cetaceans in fishing nets, also known as by-catch, and avoiding collisions between whales and boats.Establishment of a sanctuary is also oriented toward preventing pollutants and impacts from land-based activities on the water, and to better understand&nbsp;recent massive marine die-offs and mitigating climate change effects. Japan keeps hunting whales, despite strong international criticismRisky commercial interestsThe South Atlantic sanctuary proposal required&nbsp;three-quarters of countries voting to support it - but support this time around&nbsp;was even lower than in 2014. If approved, the sanctuary would have joined two other existing IWC whale sanctuaries, one in the Indian Ocean and one in the Southern Ocean.In both sanctuaries, whaling is only permitted for aboriginal subsistence and scientific purposes; commercial whaling is wholly banned under the 1985&nbsp;commercial whaling moratorium.But Japan, Norway and Iceland have kept hunting around 2,000 whales every year, according to the Whale and Dolphin Conservation -&nbsp;and these countries have successfully&nbsp;opposed the sanctuary -&nbsp;again."The whaling nations have been in opposition to the proposal for many years," said Kitty Block, vice president of the animal protection organization Humane Society International. She continued that these countries have been&nbsp;effective in&nbsp;gaining around them&nbsp;allies that have no interest in whaling, yet stand with whaling countries for political reasons.Lack of enforcement Japan has been using the mask of scientific research to continue whaling in the sanctuaries; Iceland and Norway exploit other loopholes. The lack of sanctioning mechanisms has weakened IWC decisions over the years."At the time IWC started talking about conservation, it was incredibly forward-looking - but it did not implement any mechanism to enforce the decisions," Block said. Humane Society International is campaigning for whale protection in SloveniaEven though the IWC, numerous countries around the world and even the International Court of Justice have&nbsp;ruled against Japan for undermining the international agreement, Japan has not stopped hunting whales."These things depend on countries acting in good faith," Block said. But without "ocean police," not all countries come into line, she added.The economic argumentOne of the main points emerging is the idea that whales are more valuable alive than they are dead.A new whale&nbsp;sanctuary would allow coastal communities to benefit from whales in a sustainable way - "from whale watching, for instance," said Fuchs.Countries proposing the sanctuary presented figures on past revenues generated by whale watching, and its potential to increase. In Argentina for instance, the number of tourists going on whale watching tours has increased 548 percent from 1991 to 2007.Proposing countries also say the sanctuary would offer opportunities for whale-based eco-tourism that would benefit an area much broader than only coastal villages in the South Atlantic basin. Whale watching could be a sustainable alternative to whale huntingHope for safe swimming"In the 21st century, the world has moved beyond commercial whaling," Block said. "It has moved into an area of whale conservation and protection - and these sanctuaries are the keystone of these efforts."But the result of the vote has shown that all countries do not share this position.&nbsp;Glenn Inwood, the spokesperson&nbsp;for&nbsp;the Japanese delegation at IWC, told DW that Japan opposed the sanctuary due to lack&nbsp;of scientific merit for it. He said anti-whaling countries&nbsp;are welcome to turn their territorial waters into protected areas&nbsp;through their own domestic legislation - just not&nbsp;the entire South Atlantic Ocean.Fuchs pointed to Japan's extensive outreach among African countries as the success factor for opposing the sanctuary proposal.&nbsp;Brazil did virtually none, she added.&nbsp;"The proposing countries now have two more years to increase bilateral talks and get more countries onboard," Fuchs said.Telles remains optimistic:&nbsp;"We'll keep trying in the next meeting."In any case, Brazil is not likely to give up, as it has been fighting for the South Atlantic whale sanctuary since 1998.