VICE-PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa yesterday declared that the Norton seat was a must-win for Zanu PF, saying President Robert Mugabe had directed him to ensure the party is victorios in the by-election slated for tomorrow at all costs . BY Everson MushavaAddressing a Zanu PF rally to drum up support for the ruling party s candidate, Ronald Chindedza, Mnangagwa said the electorate should not waste their votes on a non-Zanu PF candidate, as that person would not access State resources to develop the constituency. You should vote for the rulers, not for the ruled. Vote to be part of the rulers, not the ruled, he said. Even if you are asleep and you dream of Zimbabwe under another government, which is not Zanu PF, you should wake up, brew beer and ask your ancestors why they have forsaken you. Chindedza is contesting against independent candidate, Temba Mliswa and National Constitutional Assembly s David Choga. The seat fell vacant following the recall of expelled Zanu PF legislator, Christopher Mutsvangwa.Mnangagwa said after doling out agricultural land, the Zanu PF government was now into provision of residential stands to economically empower its supporters.The Vice-President said Zanu PF was firmly in control of the affairs of the country and threatened to deal decisively with white commercial farmers still opposed to the land reform programme. We produce our food, we have our wives and make children, so where does the white man come in? he said. The white man should go back were he came from, we will keep our Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe will never be as colony again. If they dare challenge us, we will thrash them. But I am not saying people should go around taking land willy-nilly. There are procedures to follow, so that there is no chaos. Mnangagwa urged Zanu PF political commissar and Local Government minister Saviour Kasukuwere to weed out corrupt MDC-T councillors running local authorities across the country. We have a fearless boy (Kasukuwere), who, if you set him on someone, you go to bed peacefully because you know he will carry out the task. He will deal with those corrupt MDC-T councillors, he said.