New information reported by German media on Thursday suggested that DNA from Uwe&nbsp;B hnhardt, a deceased alleged member of the neo-Nazi group National Socialist Underground (NSU),&nbsp;might have been inadvertently transferred to the site where the girl's remains were found.The discovery earlier this month of B hnhardt's DNA on a piece of cloth at the crime scene had the potential to open a sensational new chapter in the case of Peggy K., who disappeared without a trace in 2001. The girl's skeletal remains were&nbsp;discovered in July.B hnhardt and the&nbsp;NSU have been&nbsp;tied to the killings of mostly foreigners in Germany between 2000 and 2007. The cell's sole surviving member, Beate Zsch pe, is currently on trial in Munich.The discovery of B hnhardt's DNA confounded police at the time, but reports by regional public broadcasters Bayerischer Rundfunk and S dwestrundfunk suggested that&nbsp;the traces of DNA had been transferred accidentally by investigators at the scene who used equipment that had also been used during NSU investigations.Authorities to release new info Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2RD7xThe prosecutor's office for the Bavarian city of Bayreuth on Thursday said it would re-examine the evidence that initially pointed them to B hnhardt. It also said the public should not expect quick results from its inquiry.The case once again became a national sensation this past summer after a man discovered the girl's remains while picking mushrooms in the town of Lichtenberg. Her disappearance had sparked a massive nationwide search, but no clues were ever found as to what happened to her.Following the discovery of B hnhardt's DNA, authorities said they would be expanding their investigations and later announced they were reopening another child murder case possibly linked to the neo-Nazi terrorist.That case involves the murder of 9-year-old Bernd B., whose remains were found in July 1993 near the Saale River. As with Peggy, police were unable to determine the cause of death.blc/sms &nbsp;(dpa, AFP)For years, neo-Nazis of the right-wing organization National Socialist Underground (NSU) were killing people across Germany. The suspects: Uwe Mundlos, Uwe B hnhardt (center) and Beate Zsch pe. Their victims: eight people of Turkish origin, one Greek man and a German policewoman. Their motive: obvious xenophobia. Until 2011, the German public was not aware of the scope of their crimes.The murder spree was uncovered on November 4, 2011 when Mundlos and B hnhardt robbed a bank in the east German town of Eisenach. For the first time, they failed. Police officers surrounded the caravan in which the two men were holed up. A later investigation concluded that Mundlos first shot and killed B hnhardt, then set the caravan on fire and killed himself.Shortly after the death of B hnhardt and Mundlos there was an explosion at Fr hlingsstra e 26 in Zwickau, in the state of Saxony. Beate Zsch pe lived at that address together with the two bank robbers. Zsch pe allegedly set the house on fire to destroy evidence. Four days later, she turned herself in to the police. The terror suspect has been in pre-trial custody since that day.In the ruins of the Zwickau flat, police officers found a self-made video in which the terror cell claimed responsibility under the name of the NSU, the National-Socialist Underground. The 15-minute video shows crime scenes and pictures of the victims killed by the right-wing terrorist group between 2000 and 2007.Famous cartoon character The Pink Panther hosts the amateur video, which is full of slogans of hatred against people with an immigrant background and which mocks the murder victims. Before her arrest, Zsch pe allegedly sent out copies of the video in which the NSU claimed responsibility for the crimes.Until 2011, the term "d ner murders" was frequently used when reporting about the killings. Nothing was known about the connection between the individual cases, nor about the motive. There were rumors the victims were linked to the drug scene. But the NSU's video left no doubt. The term "d ner murders" was chosen as Germany's "Unwort des Jahres" (doublespeak of the year) in 2011."The findings made by our security authorities so far show no indication of a terrorist background, but of a criminal milieu," said German Interior Minister Otto Schily on June 10, 2004. A day earlier, a pipe bomb explosion in Cologne left 22 people injured and many shops damaged. In 2011, it became clear: the NSU s right-wing terrorists were also behind the Cologne bombing.On February 23, 2012, Germany commemorated the victims. At the ceremony at a Berlin concert hall, the focus was on the relatives of the victims. Semiya Simsek (right), the daughter of the murdered flower stand owner Enver Simsek, gave an emotional speech. German Chancellor Angela Merkel made an official apology to the victims and promised them that all questions would be answered.On November 4, 2012, exactly a year after the terror cell was uncovered, people in many German cities staged solidarity demonstrations against right-wing extremism. The protesters called for thorough investigations into the racially motivated murders - which in their view was not happening fast enough."Dortmund is a colorful, tolerant and welcoming town and opposes right-wing extremism!" This statement was made by mayor Ullrich Sierau at the unveiling of the memorial stone for NSU victim Mehmet Kubasik in September 2012. The memorial was set up just meters away from the kiosk in which Kubasik was killed on April 4, 2006. Author: Anna Peters / nh