Typhoon Chaba swept across South Korea on Wednesday, unleashing powerful winds and dumping heavy rains that created flash floods and left behind a trail of destruction.At least six&nbsp;people were killed and another four&nbsp;remain missing. The death toll is likely to rise.Photos from the devastation showed cars and debris floating through flooded streets.The southeastern cities of Busan, the country's second-largest, and Ulsan were the hardest hit.In the industrial city of Ulsan, two of Hyundai Motor's main car plants were shut down and one remained shuttered on Thursday due to flooding.Photos showed the assembly lines at the plant flooded.Asia's largest movie event, the Busan International Film Festival, was also impacted.The festival was set to start on Thursday, but several events scheduled to take place on the waterfront had to be cancelled or moved indoors.After thrashing South Korea, the typhoon was downgraded to a tropical cyclone over the Sea of Japan.Severe storm warnings were triggered for&nbsp;Honshu island on Wednesday evening.cw/kl&nbsp;(AFP, AP)Hurricane, typhoon, and cyclone are actually three names for the same phenomenon. Along the North American coast they are called hurricanes, in East and Southeast Asia they are called typhoons, and near India and Australia they are called cyclones. But despite the different names, they develop in the same way.Tropical storms develop over oceans when the water temperature is at least 26 degrees Celsius (79 degrees Fahrenheit). As the warm water evaporates and condenses, the air around it heats up and drags cooler air upwards, creating powerful winds.The Earth's rotation causes the air stream to move around the eye of the storm, which can be up to 50 kilometers wide. This area is nearly completely free of clouds and wind.When a tropical storm hits a coastline, it becomes weaker due to the lack of warm water. In Australia, "Marcia" was soon downgraded to a category one storm, while "Lam" weakened after striking near Brisbane. Masses of water from the sea often cause the worst damage - as seen here in China after Typhoon Nanmadol in August 2011.Hurricane Sandy was one of the strongest hurricanes ever recorded over the Atlantic Ocean. It caused waves of up to 4 meters high, fires, power outages and broken dykes. Sandy arrived with winds at speeds of more than 145 kilometers per hour. Cuba, New York and New Jersey were particularly affected.Tornadoes however, are non-tropical whirlwinds that can occur anywhere a storm is brewing. Local temperature differences force warm air upwards and cold air down, and a column of warm air rotates upwards at an increasing velocity. Tornadoes are usually only a maximum of 1 kilometer in diameter.As the warm air rises, it forms a funnel, the main characteristic of a tornado. Inside the funnel, the speed of the air can be tremendous - up to 500 kilometers per hour. Tornadoes are the fastest whirlwind type of weather phenomenon.A tornado can leave a trail of destruction several kilometers long. In the US Midwest, tornadoes occur several hundred times a year, as dry, cold air from the north hits damp, warm air from the Gulf of Mexico. It's different in other countries - in Germany, for example, tornadoes occasionally occur along the coast. Author: Brigitte Osterath / ew