Germany's lack of verticality and strength in attack were pin-pointed as two of the reasons for the 2-0 loss to France in Marseille.But what will be encouraging for the Germany coach is that the&nbsp;previous two matches - against Finland and a qualifier in Norway - were much crisper, creative&nbsp;performances from Joachim L w's men."I presume that we're going to secure&nbsp;the points. The clear goal for us is to secure six points," L w told reporters ahead of their second group encounter in 2018 World Cup qualification.&nbsp;L w hasn't found the right balance yetGermany coach L w had only three training sessions to prepare for Saturday's encounter. His focus was on intensity in the final-third and working towards the opponents' goal. "It was important to make it clear to the team that we are making our lives difficult, if we don't make it 1-0 or 2-0," explained L w.While Germany's Bundesliga may be the highest-scoring league in Europe, the country has profligacy in developing central strikers. Since Miroslav Klose retired after the 2014 World Cup, L w has struggled to find a tested, reliable option to suit his style. A move back to Wolfsburg heralded new fortunes for Mario Gomez, but the 31-year-old has looked miles off the pace this season.Klose retired in 2014 with 71 international goalsMario G tze frantically&nbsp;held on to his central position at the Euros, but a lack of directness&nbsp;eventually cost the Germans in the semifinal defeat to France. Not even in the under-21 squad is there a regular and proven goalscorer; the kind that European football has struggled to produce in abundance over the last decade.Meanwhile, there is 'no problem' with Thomas M ller, the unpredictable forward who has seen his performances this calendar year. "If M ller does not score in five games, that is no problem. This is also completely normal," added L w.&nbsp;Borussia M nchengladbach's Andre Hahn didn't make the squad, while Sandro Wagner has yet to breakthrough into L w's plans.Opposition: Czech RepublicAccording to the 56-year-old L w, Czech Republic will be Germany's 'most demanding' opponent in the group phase for World Cup qualification. "The Czech Republic defend well and are good on the counterattack," analyzed the Germany coach at the pre-game press conference in Hamburg.Karel Jarolim's side are 33rd in the FIFA rankings, but were held to a goalless draw at home to Northern Ireland last month. The Czechs went out at the group stage of Euro 2016 without winning a single match, and have qualified for the World Cup once - 2006 in Germany.The looming retirement of Tomas Rosicky, now 36 and out of the squad, has enforced the need for young talent coming through in the Czech ranks. Vladimir Darida has been a fantastic acquisition for Hertha Berlin, but is injured after rupturing ankle ligaments. Options to threaten Germany in attacking areas are limited - the most experienced forward player, Matej Vydra of Derby, has collected just&nbsp;19 caps."We're playing against a team that can only be defeated in exceptional circumstances. We hope for a little miracle," Jarolim told German sports magazine "Kicker".