Aoussa was the number two in the High Council for the Unity of Azawad (HCUA), one of the many armed groups in northern Mali. A HCUA spokesman said he was killed Saturday after leaving the UN peacekeeping MINUSMA mission where he met officials to discuss security.Aoussa's car "was hit by a mine and he died on the spot" after he left the MINUSMA office, according to an African military source who added "he was attending a meeting, then as he went to go home he was accidentally killed."The HCUA is one of the Tuareg separatist groups which is a signatory to a 2015 peace accord with Mali's government. But despite the accord, there has been fighting in Kidal among armed groups which were party to the peace deal.Ongoing security risksIn a report published last week, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said that the pro-government groups and former rebels involved in the clashes should potentially face sanctions. The report warned of serious failings in the UN's mission in Mali, including the loss of vital equipment.In 2013, the HCUA broke ties with al-Qaeda-linked Ansar Dine extremists who continue to carry out attacks on peacekeepers and Malian security forces. The French-led military intervention drove Islamic extremists out of north Mali in the same year.The former rebel Coordination of Azawad Movements (CMA), which controls Kidal, confirmed Aouass's death and called for an "independent inquiry.""Among the theories, there is that of an attack and a car bombing," CMA member Mohamed Ag Oussene said.Merkel visitChancellor Angela Merkel begins her three-day tour of Mali, Niger and Ethiopia on Sunday to discuss German development aid and ways to prevent young Africans trying to migrate to Europe. She will meet the presidents of Chad and Nigeria in Berlin next week."I am convinced that our security, our life in peace and our sustainable development is connected with the living situation of people who live far away from us," Merkel said in an interview with Die Zeit published Thursday. "The more people in the world know about us, the more we must deal with them.""We must give these countries hope for the future," Merkel said. "We must also push them to adopt better governance.""Let me encourage all of you to show more openness in the direction of this continent," she said of Africa. "Especially since the population in Europe's neighboring continent is expected to double in the next 35 years."Human rightsMerkel to embark on Africa tour Merkel was also urged to raise human rights issues during her Africa visit. Germany director at Human Rights Watch (HRW)&nbsp;Wenzel Michalski said in a statement Saturday that any serious discussion of migration from Africa to Europe needs to focus on the grave human rights violations and governance concerns at home that force people to flee their countries.""Ethiopia and Mali are key examples of countries where serious crimes by the security forces and lack of accountability are fueling refugee flows, and Germany s priority should be to end these abuses," Michalski said.&nbsp;HRW said that&nbsp;German participation in MINUSMA&nbsp;should bolster efforts by the Malian government to protect civilians from the "rampant banditry and lawlessness in large areas of the country."It remains unclear who exactly carried out Friday's attack on the Radisson Blu in Bamako, which houses a large number of diplomats and journalists from around the world. While dozens of hotel guests and staff were able to escape, some 170 were taken hostage.One of many armed groups in Mali could be responsible for the hostage taking, among them the Islamist group Ansar Dine, the self-proclaimed "Defenders of the Faith," led by Iyad Ag Ghaly. They've been fighting for an Islamist state in Mali's northern region since 2012.In 2012, Ansar Dine quickly won control over large swathes of northern Mali and set up a regime of terror, hacking off the hands of alleged thieves and stoning alleged adulterers. Worldwide, the fighters drew attention by intentionally destroying precious cultural treasures, such as this 15th century mosque in Timbuktu.The conflict in Mali was intensified by the war in Libya. Many weapons and numerous fighters made their way into northern Mali in 2011 as a result of the chaos and fighting after the fall of dictator Moammar Gadhafi.After a period of cooperation Islamist militants ousted the religiously moderate Tuareg rebels, such as the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad (MNLA), which is fighting for its own territory in that region.In January 2013, the potential for an Islamist invasion of the capital, Bamako, loomed. French President Francois Hollande ordered a military operation to combat the rebels. By the summer, the French were able to retake key cities with the cooperation of Malian and other West African troops as part of "Operation Serval."Some 10,000 UN soldiers are supposed to ensure the fragile peace in Mali. Germany's army has sent 200 soldiers to the country's south, plus 50 soldiers to Bamako as part of a training mission for Mali's army. German Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen visited the troops in February 2014.But rebels and bandits still haven't left the country in peace. Again and again, there have been reports of attacks and kidnappings. Hundreds of thousands of Malians have left their homes in recent years. These children are living in a refugee camp in Mentao, located in neighboring Burkina Faso. Author: Peter Hille / kms jm/lw (Reuters, AFP)&nbsp;