Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has accused Germany of being aggressive over the refugee crisis. He spoke out on what he perceives as the risks to Europe of an uncontrolled migrant influx. (25.02.2016) On Sunday, Hungarians will vote on an EU-wide distribution of refugees. One thing is clear: the isolationist stance in the country is spreading. That's exactly what the government wants. (02.10.2016) A new report from human rights group Amnesty International has accused Budapest of allowing police to abuse refugees. It also suggested that the government has purposely made applying for asylum difficult. (27.09.2016) Last year, hundreds of thousands of refugees traveled north via the Balkan route. How are things now that the mass movement has subsided? Mariya Ilcheva retraces the trail through Greece, Bulgaria, Serbia and Hungary. (26.08.2016) The EU is to channel an additional 115 million euros ($129 million) in emergency support for refugees and migrants in Greece. Just under 60,000 people are stuck in Greece after borders were closed in the Balkans. (11.09.2016) Hungary's upcoming referendum on EU quotas has kept migrants in the news, which suits Viktor Orban as he envisages a further fence. Critics say the government's anti-migrant drive is a diversionary tactic. (14.09.2016) Turkey has repeated an ultimatum to the European Union: visa-free travel or else it will cease cooperation on migrants. The latest salvo was delivered by the foreign minister to Germany's mass-market "Bild" newspaper. (15.08.2016) Polling opened at 6 a.m. (0400 UTC) Sunday and will remain open until 7 p.m. local time as Hungarians are asked to weigh in on the EU's migrant quotas designed to distribute migrants more evenly around the EU bloc.The "Yes" or "No" question voters are being asked is, "Do you want the European Union to be able, without consulting the Hungarian parliament, to decree the compulsory settlement of non-Hungarian citizens into Hungary?"The "No" camp is expected to win comfortably but the result would be invalid if less than 50 percent of eligible voters turn out.&nbsp; A poll published Saturday by the Publicus Institute found that only 46 percent of 1,000 respondents said they would vote, down from 54 percent last month.Hungarian premier doubles downPrime Minister Orban repeated warnings Saturday that mass migration was a "threat... to Europe's safe way of life" and that Hungarians had "a duty" to fight the failed "liberal methods" of the "Brussels elite.""We can send a message to each European... telling them that it depends on us, European citizens, to bring the EU back to reason, with common effort, or let it disintegrate," Orban wrote in the right-leaning Magyar Idok newspaper.The EU proposal - spearheaded by Germany and approved last year by most of the 28-nation EU bloc - is aimed at easing pressure on Italy and Greece, the EU's main entry points for hundreds of thousands of people mainly fleeing war in Syria. It would also take some pressure off Germany, which has absorbed the largest number of migrants.Opposition parties and human rights groups held protests ahead of the vote, accusing the Hungarian government of stoking xenophobia given the lack of asylum-seekers in the country."This referendum is an effort to mobilize fear and hatred," economist Tamas Bauer told the AFP news agency at a rally in Budapest on Friday.The plebiscite also threatens to further split the EU, already weakened by its worst migration crisis since post-World War II and the UK's decision to leave the EU.A group of migrants, seen through razor wire, crosses a border from Croatia near the village of Zakany, Hungary, on September 26, 2016. Rallying cries against migration have dominated the debates ahead of a government-sponsored referendum seeking political support for the rejection of any future mandatory EU quotas to accept refugees. Hungary led anti-migrant backlashHungary was the first country to erect a wall on its border and ban migrants, including refugees, from entering its territory, with several other countries later following its example. In December it and Slovakia also filed a legal challenge to the EU quota plan.More than 400,000 refugees, mainly fleeing war and strife in Syria and Iraq, transited through Hungary toward northern Europe in 2015 before Hungary sealed its southern frontier with razor wire and enacted tough anti-migrant laws. Other countries on the overland Balkan route&nbsp;followed, stranding some 60,000 migrants in Greece,&nbsp;who are now languishing in refugee centers.An EU-Turkey deal struck in March halted much of the influx, but its future remains in doubt following a summer coup attempt and increasingly&nbsp;strained relations between EU leaders and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.jar/ (AFP, dpa)