Speaking at a rally for Democrat candidate Hillary Clinton in New Hampshire, Michelle Obama called the comments "shocking and demeaning" and said:&nbsp;"This wasn't locker room banter. This was a powerful individual speaking freely and openly about sexually predatory behavior. And actually bragging about kissing and groping behavior.""I can't stop thinking about this. It has shaken me to my core in a way that I couldn't have predicted," she said. "So while I would love nothing more than pretend that this isn't happening...This is not something we can ignore," she added.The comments made by Trump&nbsp;were part of his history of alleged demeaning comments about women. "Last week, we actually saw this candidate bragging about sexually assaulting women. I can't believe I am saying that, a candidate for president of the United States bragged about sexually assaulting women," she argued.The Republican candidate's comments would remind many women of their experiences with sexual assault, the first lady told the audience. "The truth is, it hurts. It hurts...It's like that sick, sinking feeling you get when you are walking down the street, minding your own business and some guy yells out vulgar words about your body," she said.She also mentioned that men in her family did not talk about women like this and that there&nbsp;were loving fathers who would be sickened by the thought of their daughters being exposed to this kind of vicious language.Michelle Obama's comments were widely discussed on Twitter, with many users asking her when she would run for president.But the first lady also got her share of nasty comments.And some users also connected her with former President Bill Clinton's past.Michelle Obama's forceful comments came shortly after a 2005 video of Donald Trump became public. It&nbsp;showed&nbsp;the GOP nominee bragging about how easy it was for him to "do anything" to women. Trump has since played down the comments, insisting they were "locker room" talk. Several women, including a People Magazine reporter, have since then alleged that the presidential candidate inappropriately touched them - a charge&nbsp;denied by the 70-year-old real estate tycoon.mg/jm (AP, AFP)&nbsp;