The reopening of the historical All Saints' Church in the eastern German city&nbsp;Wittenberg was marked&nbsp;on Sunday by&nbsp;a religious&nbsp;ceremony attended by German&nbsp;President Joachim Gauck and the Queen of Denmark Margrethe II (r. and m. above).The seminal figure of the Protestant Reformation, Martin Luther, is widely&nbsp;believed&nbsp;to have posted his "Ninety-five Theses"&nbsp;on the door of church, also known as the Castle Church (Schlosskirche),&nbsp;in November 1517. The church has undergone a three-year renovation process&nbsp;as church officials prepare for the 500th anniversary of the Reformation next year.Gauck, a former pastor, praised the church for its "long and varied&nbsp;history&nbsp;from its beginnings in the Middle Ages to&nbsp;the Gothic Revival started by Kaiser Wilhelm II and beyond." He said that the door of the All Saints' Church recalled&nbsp;"a seemingly inconspicuous academic dispute that influenced world history."The "Ninety-five Theses" presented Luther's views on what he saw as the abusive practice of selling "indulgences," certificates that could allegedly bring about a reduction in the punishment imposed on sinners in the afterlife. The dispute that arose over these propositions by Luther was a main factor in the religious revolution known as the Reformation, which led to the creation of the Protestant Church alongside the Roman Catholic Church, until then the all-dominant Christian institution.The alleged posting of the "Ninety-five Theses" on these doors may have sparked the schism in the churchStrong Danish connectionsQueen Margrethe II was invited to the opening because of&nbsp;the strong and&nbsp;historical relations enjoyed&nbsp;between&nbsp;the Danish royal family and the town of Wittenberg. Her forefather, Christian II, fled from Denmark to Wittenberg in 1523 after his deposition. There, he fostered a personal friendship with Luther, as well as with reformer Philip Melanchthon."The Danish king was so impressed by Luther that he stayed in Wittenberg until 1524," the queen&nbsp;told the congregation in perfect German.Denmark introduced the Protestant Reformation in 1536 and Margrethe is head of Denmark's Evangelical Lutheran Church. Nevertheless, she said the invitation to attend the opening sermon of the newly refurbished All Saints' Church was a "big and joyful surprise."Known in Denmark for her artistic talents, Margrethe presented the congregation with a red altar&nbsp;tapestry, known as an antependium, that she designed specially for the church. "It characterizes Luther well," she said. "A fiery spirit, who sparked that fire in many other souls."The renovation of the church cost 7.85 million euros ($8.82 million)Wittenberg to be 'center of Europe'With next year marking&nbsp;the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, the chairman of the Protestant&nbsp;Evangelical Church in Germany, Heinrich Bedford-Strohm, said that Wittenberg would&nbsp;find itself at the center of Europe."We want 2017 to be a celebration of Christianity, and to tell of the reformers who rediscovered the piety of their times," he said.Saxony-Anhalt's state premier, Reiner Haselhoff, said: "For Saxony-Anhalt, the Reformation jubilee is a fantastic opportunity to present the birthplace of the Reformation internationally."The jubilee should be "celebrated in a manner that is future-oriented, open-minded and ecumenical," he said.dm/tj (KNA, epd)Martin Luther would still find his way around the old town center of Wittenberg - the alleyways, market square and town houses are still the same as 500 years ago. And the All Saints' Church, also known as the Castle Church, still towers above it all in this central German town on the river Elbe. It is generally believed that on October 31, 1517, Martin Luther posted his 95 theses on the doors of All Saints' Church. That day is regarded as the beginning of the Reformation, which changed Europe. 2017 marks the 500th anniversary of this date, when even more visitors from around the world are expected to come to picturesque Wittenberg.All Saints' Church presents itself - like many other Luther memorial sites - freshly renovated in time for the jubilee. The magnificent church nave is where you'll find not only Martin Luther's tomb, but also the final resting place of his friend and fellow campaigner Philipp Melanchthon.The second port of call after the All Saints' Church is the former Augustinian monastery. Luther's supporter Frederick III, Elector of Saxony, gave the building to the Reformer as a gift. Luther lived here for 38 years. It offered plenty of space for his family and the many guests and students who traveled to see the famous reformer in Wittenberg.While his wife Katharina von Bora took charge of catering and logistics, Martin Luther held lectures for students from all over Europe. 500 years ago Wittenberg, the cradle of the Reformation, was regarded as the spiritual center of Europe. In the living quarters is where the so-called table discussion took place. Many guests made notes of Luther's adages and speeches, thereby preserving them for prosperity - like his statement "who does not love wine, wife and song will be a fool for his lifelong!"Philipp Melanchthon moved to be close to Luther. The scholar came to Wittenberg to have Luther explain his revolutionary theses - and then he just stayed there. Along with Luther he became a driving force behind the Protestant Reformation. In Melanchthon's house, visitors can now see his study and the room where he died.Another famous contemporary and friend of Martin Luther's lived on the market square. Lucas Cranach the Elder was an artist, apothecary, and sometime mayor. His estate counts 80 rooms, an art school, a pharmacy and a printing shop - which is where all the important Reformation leaflets were printed. The market square is still the heart of the town, very much like it was back in Luther's day. St. Mary's is regarded as the mother church of the Reformation, as this is where the first holy mass in German was held. Here you can still admire the vestry from which Martin Luther himself used to preach.It's a real eye-catcher in the interior of the St. Mary's town church. Lucas Cranach the Younger, by depicting them on the altar, immortalized the key players of the Reformation: Martin Luther as a Squire George - the name he assumed while in hiding at Wartburg Castle - along with Melanchthon and Lucas Cranach at the baptismal and Katharina von Bora as an attentive listener in the congregation. In 1821, this memorial on the market square in Wittenberg was very much a sensation, as for the first time it was not a representation of a duke or king, but instead a statue of Martin Luther the Reformer. In one hand he's holding a bible which is opened on the pages where the Old Testament ends and the New Testament begins. This was to symbolize a new era, which had its beginnings in Wittenberg. Author: Kerstin Schmidt (/sc) &nbsp;