Flamboyant businessman and Zimbabwe Football Association president, Philip Chiyangwa has lashed out at the country s political leadership, saying they were responsible for the current decay, telling them to go to hell. BY RICHARD CHIDZAChiyangwa demanded that political leaders should not put barriers in front of those trying to get the economy running and make money. Please, they must get the hell out of our way, he thundered in a short video that has since gone viral. We need space and we need people who are able to embrace change, who accept that I can be able to become a multi-millionaire without them. This country has so many smart people, (but) where is Mthuli Ncube, located somewhere in the Netherlands big brains. Where is Nkosana Moyo or even Arthur Mutambara? Ncube, who set up Barbican Bank, left the country under a cloud after he was accused of externalisation and had his financial institution shut down.Moyo quit as a minister and is now running a leadership think-tank in South Africa. We cannot have Strive Masiyiwa (Econet Wireless founder) stay way out of here because the moment he is here, they start cooking up charges of externalisation, Chiyangwa continued.The businessman, never far from controversy, urged the government to put in place progressive policies that allow for development of the economy.Contacted for comment, Chiyangwa confirmed the video and indicated it was a shorter version of a longer presentation he had given. Wait for the full video, the producers are working on it. That is only part of what I actually said, he said.In another clip that Chiyangwa later sent to NewsDay, the former Zanu PF Mashonaland West chairperson said: Why do you want to stifle development and my progress? This is the reason I fight and I know a lot of people are running away from here and it s not right. I was arrested and detained for three months for nothing. They claimed I had been arrested for supporting (Vice-President Emmerson) Mnangagwa in the succession battle. So what? I came out and before we knew it (former Vice-President Joice) Mujuru was running around claiming I was a Mnangagwa loyalist. I said bring it on. So when she was being removed, I actually put in money to make sure she was removed. He said the economy could only be turned around if political leaders allow businesses to flourish unmolested. Why would we have no space for open views and for making money in Zimbabwe? We have no space because our leadership as long as you can thrive on your own they are not happy, Chiyangwa said.