Move over Portland - there's a new vegan champion on the block.With more than 50&nbsp;exclusively vegan eateries, and ever more restaurants and caf s there offering vegan options, Berlin is gaining a reputation on the international vegan scene. Because the city is still&nbsp;relatively cheap, eating out vegan - once a struggle - has become a dream.But being vegan is not just about what you eat. It's a whole lifestyle - one that&nbsp;Berlin is at the forefront of.In Berlin, vegans can find restaurants, clothing, sex shops and other&nbsp;products that satisfy their strict dietary and lifestyle requirements.And in the&nbsp;German&nbsp;capital, veganism is in. Along with the 80,000 vegans now estimated to live in the city are butchers, singles nights and fast food restaurants - all part of a movement.That movement is continuing to grow - sometimes, a bit too quickly.&nbsp;Earlier this year, police were called in to break up a huge&nbsp;crowd at a new vegan diner that opened in Berlin's hip Neuk lln district."It's certainly fashionable. If you really want to be cool in Berlin, you've got to be vegan," Sebastian Joy of&nbsp;Vebu, Germany's largest vegetarian and vegan organization, told DW.Berlin - the new capital of vegan?While once it would have been lucky to attract&nbsp;just a few hundred visitors, a recent vegan summer festival organized by Vebu in Berlin attracted a crowd of some 60,000 people.Ever more organizations&nbsp;are helping people question their choices when it comes to animal rights, explained&nbsp;Joy."Once you have enough of that, it becomes easier for&nbsp;people to go vegan. It's like a self-reinforcing development that we have triggered here in Berlin," he said.Beyond fast foodVegans don't just stay away from meat. They avoid all animal products, for example milk-based foods or eggs. The rights of animals is a main motivation - though not the only one.The vegan lifestyle is becoming more flexible, says Sebastian Joy of VebuPeople are increasingly choosing not to consume animal products because they're more aware of the impact it can have on the environment, said&nbsp;Joy.&nbsp;According to the United Nations, the animal agriculture sector accounts for about 15 percent of manmade greenhouse gases."Whether it's for health or for the planet, the environment, the climate, animals or world hunger there are dozens of reasons, so just taking the first step to reduce&nbsp;your consumption is a huge step forward," he said.Many vegans also avoid animal products like&nbsp;leather and silk when choosing&nbsp;clothes and shoes.But the ideals that lead people to make these choices about animals&nbsp;also encourage them to seek products that tick other ethical boxes.&nbsp;Veganism has become a lifestyle in many industrialized nations, with proponents often basing their choice on environmental concerns. But is meat production and consumption really that bad for the planet? (29.09.2016) It's widely argued that cutting meat consumption is necessary to make our societies more sustainable. Although veganism is a growing trend worldwide, it remains controversial - mainly due to health issues. (19.08.2016) Tofu schnitzel, tofu bratwurst, tofu kebab. It all exists in Germany and is easier and easier to come by. Popular as vegetarian options may be, a German court has ruled that veganism is too risky as a school meal option. (19.05.2016) New research suggests that eating less meat could be key to feeding the world s growing population. Does that mean we should give veganism a shot? Louise Orchard set out to be convinced. (26.04.2016) Christina, the owner of a vegan clothing&nbsp;shop in Berlin, says that although&nbsp;clothes from chain stores like H&amp;M can be vegan, they may not satisfy the requirements of many of her customers."The problem&nbsp;is that textile production also has its bad side. For many of our customers, it's important that the clothes are vegan, but also that no child has suffered or that the environment wasn't harmed," she told DW.Vegan lifestyleBeing vegan is a choice that permeates almost every aspect of life,&nbsp;from speed dating&nbsp;to the bedroom.&nbsp;At Other Nature,&nbsp;an alternative adult shop in the&nbsp;Kreuzberg district, a special range of vegan sex toys, vibrators and lubricants are on offer. This means no leather -&nbsp;or latex, for that matter, which often contains milk proteins.Cat, who works at the shop, is a vegan herself. She&nbsp;explains the market for these products, which she says goes beyond being&nbsp;simply a&nbsp;lifestyle."People ask, 'Why are you vegan?' I really like that," she said. "Most people aren't aware that condoms are not vegan. However, we need condoms -&nbsp;everyone needs condoms for safe&nbsp;sex."For many, it seems, going vegan is about adopting a completely different way of life. Yet&nbsp;veganism is not as rigid as it once was, explained&nbsp;Sebastian Joy.For these "vegan heroes," lifestyle choices are about more than food"More and more people say, 'Well, you know, I'll do what I can'," he said. "I'll be a vegan before 6 p.m., or a home vegan, and sometimes when they're out they might eat animal products. I think that's what's really pushing the vegan movement forward."There are many different reasons that people are choosing to move their diets closer to being vegan, if not going committing entirely to the lifestyle. Well-being, for example, seems to be playing a bigger role for some people, among them&nbsp;Anna."I'm interested in health -&nbsp;that's perhaps my main focus," she told DW. "I haven't been dogmatic, but I've just moved closer [to veganism]."For others, the sacrifices involved are just too much. Although his girlfriend is vegan, Markus said&nbsp;there are things he just can't give up. "I don't drink milk, but I like cheese so much that I haven't been able to change to alternative products. I'd like to be vegan, but I just can't."Still, whether people are choosing to be fully vegan or not, there's a growing understanding in Berlin&nbsp;that what we eat or not has direct consequences for the environment.With everything from meat contamination scandals to concerns about agriculture's climate change impact in the news these days, more and more people are turning to a vegan diet. But, there are other ways to eat in an environmentally-friendly way too. Free-range meat products are now commonplace. Rarely, though, are cows raised in such a paradise as this alpine meadow.In the 1970s and 80s, eating vegetarian, and especially vegan - abstaining from animal products completely, like milk and eggs - was not part of the mainstream. Nowadays, things are changing. Jonathan Safran Foer's 2009 book "Eating Animals" sparked thought about the meat people eat. More vegan restaurants are sprouting up all over the place; here are some dishes from 'P le-M le' in Berlin.Eating vegan can reduce carbon footprints and water usage worldwide. The UN's Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that the meat industry generates nearly one-fifth of human-made greenhouse gas emissions contributing to climate change. Scientists also say that 13000 to 15000 liters of water are needed to produce just one kilogram of beef.With the recent scandal surrounding Dutch horsemeat being sold as beef, more Europeans are now simply choosing to eat meat less. But, for those that can't do without, the "Meine kleine Farm" (My little farm) concept tries to achieve transparency with consumers. It aims to give each animal it sells as meat a proper identity.The Potsdam-based farm has a website showing the living conditions of the animals and giving customers a chance to vote online about which animal they want slaughtered next. Since they mainly sell to customers in the nearby region, the 'Meine kleine Farm' project also helps to keep transportation routes - and thus greenhouse gases - to a minimum.Eating locally and in season also helps reduce greenhouse gases because it cuts out long transportation routes. Canadians Alisa Smith and J.B. MacKinnon argued for local cuisine in their book, "100-mile diet: A year of local eating." The couple spent one year eating foods from within one hundred miles of their home. Self-preserved foods got them through the winter.The modern industrial agriculture practice of cultivating monocultures, such as corn and soy, can make the crops more susceptible to pests and diseases. This, in turn, promotes the widespread use of pesticides. Small-scale farmers, on the other hand, often promote crop diversity which makes plants naturally more robust, even in periods of drought.Cultivating one's own crops is possible even in big cities, as shown by the "Princess Garden" project right in the middle of Germany's capital, Berlin. Crops are grown and consumed locally, with food dishes offered as business lunches at an on-site caf . The urban farmers here say gardening raises awareness about the environment and, since the garden is shared, they make friends along the way too.With Germans throwing away an estimated 20 million tons of food a year, food-sharing has become one of the latest environmentally-friendly trends. Restaurants or grocery stores donate still-edible food that they can no longer use to charity organizations. Foodsharing.de is an internet portal where people can swap food they won't be able to eat.Many dietary experts argue that a vegetarian or vegan diet can be good for your health too. Various studies show that a decrease in daily meat consumption may reduce the risk of cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and obesity. Author: Louisa Schaefer