PRESIDENT Robert Mugabe s government will next week appear before the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) peer review mechanism in Switzerland, as the country s human rights record comes into sharp focus amid growing unrest. BY RICHARD CHIDZAVice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who also heads the country s Justice ministry, will lead a delegation that is set to present Zimbabwe s national human rights report following recommendations made by the UNHRC in 2011.Mnangagwa told journalists at a press-briefing yesterday that government was happy with progress made since the last review and the national report had already been submitted. This despite rights lobby groups painting a dark picture of the deterioration of the situation in the country with arbitrary arrests of anti-government protestors as well as harassment of journalists. The report highlights the milestones that have been achieved in respect of human rights in Zimbabwe and also indicates the challenges faced in the implementation, he said. The report makes reference to the adoption of a new Constitution, which has been hailed for providing a wider and more comprehensive Bill of Rights. The report also takes note of the establishment of various independent commissions in terms of the Constitution, which was in line with some of the recommendations accepted during the initial review .Asked if the arbitrary use of excessive force by police in dealing with protestors and the harassment of journalists might impact negatively on the review process, Mnangagwa retorted:. We only know that journalists are harassed after the fact. Those that harass do not apply for permission to do so. He said demonstrations were allowed by the Constitution, but police have power to determine whether they are peaceful or not. Mnangagwa, a fervent critic of the death penalty, was quick to point out that Zimbabwe has failed in its efforts to abolish capital punishment.Zimbabwe, Mnangagwa admitted, had also not ratified the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. I am informed that we have not yet ratified the Torture convention. That has not gone through Parliament, he said. Opposition activists have borne the brunt of Mugabe s use of torture during investigations, with many appearing before courts limping and visibly injured after having been arrested in full health.Mnangagwa said the government had also highlighted in its report court rulings particularly those in relation to the rights of children and women .