The Italian government confirmed on Thursday that Dario Fo died at the age of&nbsp;90.According to the "Corriere della Sera" newspaper, Fo died in a&nbsp;Milan&nbsp;hospital where he had been admitted 12 days ago with lung problems.Famous for his cutting political satire in plays such as "The&nbsp;Accidental Death of an Anarchist," Fo won the Nobel prize for&nbsp;literature in 1997 -&nbsp;much to the the irritation of Italy's politicians and Church authorities.Dario Fo enjoyed provocatively belittling the recognition:&nbsp;"I'm an idiot who won the Literature Nobel Prize," he would often say in interviews. He&nbsp;worked as&nbsp;an actor, playwright, comedian, satirist, singer, theater director, stage designer, songwriter, painter and political campaigner.He always felt&nbsp;that Italy's true intellectuals were comedians: "The most significant work of our culture is Dante's 'Divine Comedy'," he pointed out in an interview with the German weekly "Die Zeit" in 2013. An untypical but world famous laureate: US songwriter Bob Dylan was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2016. The Swedish Academy selected him "for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition."Calling her work "a monument to suffering and courage in our time," the Swedish Academy awarded the Belarusian author and investigative journalist - making her only the 14th woman to win the Nobel for Literature since 1901. Alexievich is best known for her emotive firsthand accounts war and suffering, including "War's Unwomanly Face" (1985) and "Voices from Chernobyl" (2005).The French writer's stories describe a universe of haunted cities, absentee parents, criminality, and lost youths. They are all located in Paris - with the shadow of the Second World War looming heavily in the background. The Swedish Academy described the novelist, whose work has often focused on the Nazi occupation of France, as "a Marcel Proust of our time."Canadian writer Alice Munro is no stranger to accolades, having taken out the Man Booker International Prize and three Canadian Governor General Awards. The Swedish Academy, who awards the annual Nobel Prize in Literature, called her a "master of the contemporary short story."Guan Moye, better known under his pen name Mo Yan, was praised by the Swedish Academy as a writer "who with hallucinatory realism merges folk tales, history and the contemporary." The decision was criticized by Chinese dissidents like artist Ai Weiwei. They claimed Yan was too close to the Chinese Communist Party.The Academy chose Tomas G sta Transtr mer as the winner in 2011, "because, through his condensed, translucent images, he gives us fresh access to reality." In the 1960s, the Swedish poet worked as a psychologist at a center for juvenile offenders. His poetry has been translated into over 60 languages.The Peruvian novelist received the Nobel Prize "for his cartography of structures of power and his trenchant images of the individual's resistance, revolt, and defeat." In Latin America, he is famous for uttering the phrase "Mexico is the perfect dictatorship" on TV in 1990 and for punching his then-friend and fellow Nobel laureate, Gabriel Garc a M rquez, in the face in 1976.The German-Romanian author was awarded the Nobel Prize as a writer "who, with the concentration of poetry and the frankness of prose, depicts the landscape of the dispossessed." She is noted for her work criticizing the repressive Ceausescu regime in Romania, which she experienced herself. M ller writes in German and moved to West Berlin in 1987.The Swedish Academy called J.M.G. Le Cl zio an "author of new departures, poetic adventure and sensual ecstasy, explorer of a humanity beyond and below the reigning civilization." Le Cl zio was born in Nice, France, in 1940, to a French mother and a Mauritian father. He holds dual citizenship and calls Mauritius his "little fatherland."British author Doris May Lessing has written novels, plays and short stories, to name just a few of her mediums. The 93-year-old received the Nobel Prize as a writer "who with skepticism, fire and visionary power has subjected a divided civilization to scrutiny." She campaigned against nuclear weapons and the Apartheid regime in South Africa.Ferit Orhan Pamuk, "who in the quest for the melancholic soul of his native city has discovered new symbols for the clash and interlacing of cultures," was the first Turkish author to be awarded the Nobel Literature Prize. With more than 11 million sold books, he is Turkey's bestselling writer. Pamuk currently teaches at Columbia University in New York, but was born in Istanbul.Harold Pinter, "who in his plays uncovers the precipice under everyday prattle and forces entry into oppression's closed rooms," was awarded the Nobel Prize three years before his death from liver cancer. He died on Christmas Eve in 2008. The British playwright directed and acted in many radio and film productions of his own work. In total, he received more than 50 awards.The Nobel Prize was awarded to Elfriede Jelinek "for her musical flow of voices and counter-voices in novels" and for her plays that reveal society's clich s. A central theme in Jelinek's work is female sexuality. Her novel "The Piano Teacher" was the basis for the 2001 movie of the same name with Isabelle Huppert in the lead role.J. M. Coetzee, "who in innumerable guises portrays the surprising involvement of the outsider," was also awarded the Booker Prize twice before obtaining the Nobel Prize. The Cape Town-born author became an Australian citizen in 2006. One of his best-known novels, "Disgrace" (1999), is set in post-apartheid South Africa.The Jewish Hungarian Auschwitz survivor became Nobel laureate "for writing that upholds the fragile experience of the individual against the barbaric arbitrariness of history." Kert sz, who died in March 2016, described the atrocities of concentration camps in his books. He worked over 13 years on his novel "Fatelessness," first published in 1975.V.S. Naipaul received the Nobel Prize in 2001 for his strong storytelling and "for having united perceptive narrative and incorruptible scrutiny in works that compel us to see the presence of suppressed histories." Born in Trinidad and Tobago, the British writer has often explored the freedom of the individual in a declining society in his novels.The first Nobel Prize laureate of the new millennium was a Chinese author, playwright and painter based in Paris since 1987. Gao Xingjian was selected for his "oeuvre of universal validity, bitter insights and linguistic ingenuity, which has opened new paths for the Chinese novel and drama." Author: Sabine Peschel (Carla Bleiker / Julian Tompkin) "Satire can always be found everywhere. A people without love for satire is a dead people," he also said - something that certainly does not apply to the Italian people, who loved their provocative&nbsp;Dario Fo.Drawing&nbsp;before writing Dario Fo leaves behind a very complex oeuvre. Until the very end, he was active and creative, writing more than 70 plays and sketches, trying out just about everything one can do in theater, film and television.Fo published hundreds of articles and painted countless pictures, most of them for the stage. Before he would start writing or working on a story, he would always draw first. "While drawing, I discover what I really want to say," he explained.The Italian author and comedian wrote and told countless stories throughout his life. He learned this art from the children of smugglers, fishermen and peasants around the Lago Maggiore, where he was born on March 24, 1926.At the age of 14, he started to study at the Accademia di Brera in Milano, where he learned various painting techniques - under the bombardments of World War II.Favorite foes: the government and the Catholic Church Dario Fo helped his father, who was active in the Resistance movement during the war, to smuggle refugees and deserters to Switzerland.It therefore came as a surprise that at age 18, Dario Fo joined a fascist elite troop for a short time. Later on, he became a staunch leftist, although he never became a member of Italy's Communist Party with whose officials he was usually at odds.What he certainly enjoyed was to poke fun at the Christian Conservatives, who were everywhere on public television. As a punishment for some sarcastic remarks he made, he was even banned from TV during the 60s. His favorite foes were the dignitaries of the Catholic Church. Very proudly, he called himself a "cleric devourer," yearning for a "laughing God," even though he was an atheist.Arrested on stageDario Fo served several prison sentences for his artistic and political ideas. The satirist was arrested 47 times - often while he was on stage. Yet these attempts to humiliate him never stopped him.Dario Fo with his wife Franca Rame at a protest against Berlusconi in 2009He did not shy away from attacking Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi. In his absurd short play from&nbsp;2004, "L'anomalo bicefalo" (The anomalous bicephalous), he provocatively recommended the transplantation of half of Putin's brain into Berlusconi's head."We are convinced that laughter is the highest expression of doubt, the most important support for reason," said the author of popular stories who always saw himself as a spokesperson for the poor and downtrodden, attacking those in power at any given occasion.Quite often, he was on stage accompanied by his wife Franca Rame, with whom he was married from 1954 until her death in 2013. The beautiful actress born in a traditional theater family was the one who taught him how to perform.A contradictory view at life and deathIn 1997, the Literature Nobel Prize was awarded to Dario Fo, "who emulates the jesters of the Middle Ages in scourging authority and upholding the dignity of the downtrodden.""The Pope's Daughter," his first novel, was just published in 2014, at the age of 88. In his memoirs, released through a series of long interviews a few years earlier, he already felt he didn't have much longer to live. "Life has always treated me well," he said. "I therefore won't mind leaving it behind."&nbsp;