At the hugely-anticipated ceremony in Stockholm on Thursday, the Swedish Academy awarded the 2016 Nobel Prize in Literature to US poet and musician Bob Dylan.Dylan is the first American to receive the award since Toni Morrison in&nbsp;1992.&nbsp;It is the&nbsp;first time the&nbsp;prestigious recognition&nbsp;is&nbsp;bestowed on a musician.He won the award for creating "new poetic expressions within the&nbsp;great American song tradition," Academy Permanent Secretary Sara&nbsp;Danius said after announcing the prize.Bob Dylan writes "poetry for the eyes," she added, recommending to&nbsp;those not familiar with his songs to listen to&nbsp;his 1966 album "Blonde on Blonde,"&nbsp;often ranked by critics as one of the greatest albums of all time.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Born Robert Allen Zimmerman on May 24, 1941, in Minnesota,&nbsp;Dylan took the music world by storm in&nbsp;his early 20s, with&nbsp;radical protest folk songs such as&nbsp;"Blowin' in the Wind" and "The Times They Are A-Changin," which became&nbsp;anthems for the anti-war and civil rights movements of the 1960s. Send Facebook Twitter Google+ Whatsapp Tumblr linkedin stumble Digg reddit Newsvine Permalink http://dw.com/p/2RBWDThursday's announcement completed the annual Nobel Prize&nbsp;announcements. Awards have earlier been awarded in the fields of&nbsp;medicine, physics, chemistry, peace and economics.This year, the prizes are each worth 8 million kronor ($930,000). The awards are presented every year on December 10, the&nbsp;anniversary of the death of Swedish industrialist Alfred Nobel. An untypical but world famous laureate: US songwriter Bob Dylan was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2016. The Swedish Academy selected him "for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition."Calling her work "a monument to suffering and courage in our time," the Swedish Academy awarded the Belarusian author and investigative journalist - making her only the 14th woman to win the Nobel for Literature since 1901. Alexievich is best known for her emotive firsthand accounts war and suffering, including "War's Unwomanly Face" (1985) and "Voices from Chernobyl" (2005).The French writer's stories describe a universe of haunted cities, absentee parents, criminality, and lost youths. They are all located in Paris - with the shadow of the Second World War looming heavily in the background. The Swedish Academy described the novelist, whose work has often focused on the Nazi occupation of France, as "a Marcel Proust of our time."Canadian writer Alice Munro is no stranger to accolades, having taken out the Man Booker International Prize and three Canadian Governor General Awards. The Swedish Academy, who awards the annual Nobel Prize in Literature, called her a "master of the contemporary short story."Guan Moye, better known under his pen name Mo Yan, was praised by the Swedish Academy as a writer "who with hallucinatory realism merges folk tales, history and the contemporary." The decision was criticized by Chinese dissidents like artist Ai Weiwei. They claimed Yan was too close to the Chinese Communist Party.The Academy chose Tomas G sta Transtr mer as the winner in 2011, "because, through his condensed, translucent images, he gives us fresh access to reality." In the 1960s, the Swedish poet worked as a psychologist at a center for juvenile offenders. His poetry has been translated into over 60 languages.The Peruvian novelist received the Nobel Prize "for his cartography of structures of power and his trenchant images of the individual's resistance, revolt, and defeat." In Latin America, he is famous for uttering the phrase "Mexico is the perfect dictatorship" on TV in 1990 and for punching his then-friend and fellow Nobel laureate, Gabriel Garc a M rquez, in the face in 1976.The German-Romanian author was awarded the Nobel Prize as a writer "who, with the concentration of poetry and the frankness of prose, depicts the landscape of the dispossessed." She is noted for her work criticizing the repressive Ceausescu regime in Romania, which she experienced herself. M ller writes in German and moved to West Berlin in 1987.The Swedish Academy called J.M.G. Le Cl zio an "author of new departures, poetic adventure and sensual ecstasy, explorer of a humanity beyond and below the reigning civilization." Le Cl zio was born in Nice, France, in 1940, to a French mother and a Mauritian father. He holds dual citizenship and calls Mauritius his "little fatherland."British author Doris May Lessing has written novels, plays and short stories, to name just a few of her mediums. The 93-year-old received the Nobel Prize as a writer "who with skepticism, fire and visionary power has subjected a divided civilization to scrutiny." She campaigned against nuclear weapons and the Apartheid regime in South Africa.Ferit Orhan Pamuk, "who in the quest for the melancholic soul of his native city has discovered new symbols for the clash and interlacing of cultures," was the first Turkish author to be awarded the Nobel Literature Prize. With more than 11 million sold books, he is Turkey's bestselling writer. Pamuk currently teaches at Columbia University in New York, but was born in Istanbul.Harold Pinter, "who in his plays uncovers the precipice under everyday prattle and forces entry into oppression's closed rooms," was awarded the Nobel Prize three years before his death from liver cancer. He died on Christmas Eve in 2008. The British playwright directed and acted in many radio and film productions of his own work. In total, he received more than 50 awards.The Nobel Prize was awarded to Elfriede Jelinek "for her musical flow of voices and counter-voices in novels" and for her plays that reveal society's clich s. A central theme in Jelinek's work is female sexuality. Her novel "The Piano Teacher" was the basis for the 2001 movie of the same name with Isabelle Huppert in the lead role.J. M. Coetzee, "who in innumerable guises portrays the surprising involvement of the outsider," was also awarded the Booker Prize twice before obtaining the Nobel Prize. The Cape Town-born author became an Australian citizen in 2006. One of his best-known novels, "Disgrace" (1999), is set in post-apartheid South Africa.The Jewish Hungarian Auschwitz survivor became Nobel laureate "for writing that upholds the fragile experience of the individual against the barbaric arbitrariness of history." Kert sz, who died in March 2016, described the atrocities of concentration camps in his books. He worked over 13 years on his novel "Fatelessness," first published in 1975.V.S. Naipaul received the Nobel Prize in 2001 for his strong storytelling and "for having united perceptive narrative and incorruptible scrutiny in works that compel us to see the presence of suppressed histories." Born in Trinidad and Tobago, the British writer has often explored the freedom of the individual in a declining society in his novels.The first Nobel Prize laureate of the new millennium was a Chinese author, playwright and painter based in Paris since 1987. Gao Xingjian was selected for his "oeuvre of universal validity, bitter insights and linguistic ingenuity, which has opened new paths for the Chinese novel and drama." Author: Sabine Peschel (Carla Bleiker / Julian Tompkin) &nbsp;kb/eg/kl (AP, dpa)