At least four people suffered serious injuries in the cluster of tremors that&nbsp;shook Italy on Wednesday night,&nbsp;Civil Protection department chief Fabrizio Curcio said. The epicenter of the cluster was in the near the central town of Visso, around 170 kilometers (105 miles) northeast of Rome.Many buildings collapsed or suffered damage, according to officials.The first earthquake hit with a magnitude of 5.4 past 7 pm local time, according to the US Geological Survey. It was followed by a more powerful 6.1 tremor some two hours later, and another quake of 4.9 just before midnight.The earthquakes were felt in Rome, as well as Venice in the north and Naples in the south of the country.The first, weaker quake prompted people to go outside and saved them from the more powerful one two hours later, said the&nbsp;mayor of a village near Visso.Mayor of Ussita Marco Rinaldi told Sky TG24 channel,&nbsp;"There are enormous problems.&nbsp;... The area of our town is really finished, it is an apocalyptic situation.""Many houses collapsed," he added. "People are screaming on the street, and now we are without lights."Tremors 'linked' to August quakePeople in Rome and elsewhere rushed out of their homes in panic and stood in torrential rain after the tremors shook century-old buildings. The quakes also disrupted power and blocked roads in several areas, as well as cut short a football game between Pescara and Atalanta on Italy's east coast.Italy's national geophysics institute said the Wednesday seismic events were linked to the deathly earthquake in August that killed hundreds in Amatrice, about 50&nbsp;kilometers (31&nbsp;miles) away from Visso. The aftershocks caused further damage to buildings in&nbsp;the tourist town. Amatrice Mayor&nbsp;Sergio Pirozzi&nbsp;told ANSA news agency that the latest incident&nbsp;"certainly reawakens our fears.""We are&nbsp;thanking God that there are no dead," he added.dj/gsw&nbsp;(dpa, AFP, AP, Reuters)Seven tectonic plates make up our earth's surface. Where they meet, chances for an earthquake are the highest. In Nepal, the tectonic collision of the Indian plate with the Eurasian plate caused a dramatic quake on April 25, 2015. It's one of the seven places on earth most prone to earthquakes.In the valley of Kathmandu, seven cultural World Heritage sites draw Nepalese and international visitors alike. Here, people are celebrating the Gaijatra Festival at the historic square in Bhaktapur in August 2014.Volunteer workers try to rescue people from beneath the ruins of collapsed temples - they have nothing but their bare hands to dig with. The 2015 Nepalese earthquake killed nearly 9,000 people. Japan is known as an earthquake specialist, building its skyscrapers on moving foundations that can absorb the earth's shocks during a quake. It's also known for its nuclear power plants. In 2010, the Takahama power plant (pictured above, on the other side of the island from Fukushima) was one of 55, producing a third of the country's energy needs.Japan is more than 5,000 kilometers (3,107 miles) from Nepal. But in March 2011, it suffered a similarly disastrous earthquake, causing one of the worst tsunamis Japan has ever seen. More than 18,000 people were declared dead, and meltdowns of nuclear reactors in Fukushima leaked radioactive material into the surrounding area - more than was released in the Chernobyl catastrophe.The Andaman Islands, which are part of India, are close to the intersection of the Indian and Eurasian continental plates. Due to the high tectonic tensions, earthquakes are common here.The worst of these earthquakes in recent history hit on December 26, 2004. It was the third-strongest quake ever measured. Tsunamis following the quake killed 230,000 people along the coast.The Chinese province of Yunnan is known for its breathtaking landscape, its rice terraces - and its earthquake risk. As Yunnan is located on the border between the Indian and Eurasian tectonic plates, tectonic plate tensions can cause severe earthquakes.In August 2014, more than 400 people were killed and about 100,000 left homeless by a 6.5-magnitude quake. Strong earthquakes are common in China. In 2008, 70,000 people died after a quake hit in the province of Sichuan.Although Europe is not really known for earthquakes, they are more common than one might think. In Italy, the African plate comes up against the European continent, and the whole country is situated up against the plate boundary.In 2009, a quake killed 300 people and left more than 10,000 homeless in the Italian town of L'Aquila. When seven scientists were convicted of manslaughter for failing to advise of earthquake threats, this raised international critique: Despite the most modern scientific methods, earthquakes cannot be predicted.The Golden Gate Bridge is San Francisco's most prominent landmark. But it is under threat: Scientists say that soon, the worst earthquake in more than 100 years could hit the city, threatening its inhabitants. Culprit here is the San Andreas fault, where the North American plate meets the Pacific plate, just off the Californian coast.In 1906, San Francisco was destroyed by an earthquake and resulting urban fires. To date, the San Francisco quake is said to be one of the deadliest natural disasters in US history - 3,000 to 6,000 people were killed.Today, nothing in idyllic south-Chilean Valdivia reminds visitors of the earthquake danger. That doesn't make it less real: Just off the Chilean coast, the South American plate hits the Nazca plate. When tensions rise, the earth shakes. As a consequence, tsunamis form.At a magnitude of 9.5, it was the strongest earthquake ever measured: In 1960, the quake destroyed large parts of southern Chile's infrastructure. At least 1,700 people died, while millions were made homeless. The next "big bang" is likely to take place in Chile's northern region. The earth there, scientists say, has been suspiciously quiet for years. Author: Lisa Duhm